PARIS  If you want a lively dinner party conversation in Paris these days, just mention les voies sur berges  the express car lanes that run along the Seine  and your guests will soon be at one anothers throats.Ignoring the advice of an experts committee, Mayor Anne Hidalgo last month imposed a , which was built in the 1970s, when motorists ruled the city. Today is a different era, of bikers and shared . Ms. Hidalgo, a Socialist elected in 2014 with the support of ecologists, wants clean air in the City of Light and the riverside express lanes turned into pedestrian walkways. She has declared war on private cars. Parisian drivers feel trapped in a dark plot to eliminate them. And it hurts.The Socialist mayor is betting on a phenomenon called evaporation of traffic. The experience of other cities shows that when streets are permanently closed to traffic, drivers tend to alter their habits: They change their itinerary when possible, or choose another means of transportation. What is not evaporating, though, in the first weeks of the experiment on the voies sur berges, is the anger of motorists stuck in rush-hour traffic on parallel streets, still stubbornly clinging to their steering wheels.So when the government announced, in the same week, that it was planning to make room somewhere in Paris for   hardly a priority in a city struggling with terrorist threats and refugees, not to mention   tempers flared. Ms. Hidalgo was derided as Notre-Drame de Paris (our drama queen) by a business magazine, Challenges, and branded Queen of the Bobos (bourgeois bohemians) by conservative opponents who accuse her of catering to the left-leaning yuppie voters of a gentrified French capital. They mock her authoritarian management style: She wants to make happiness compulsory.Unperturbed, the earnest Ms. Hidalgo is racing ahead. Her quiet determination to enforce her agenda on air pollution, social diversity in housing and transit centers for migrants has made her a distinctive voice in a discredited political establishment. The daughter of an electrician and a seamstress who immigrated from Spain in the 1960s, Ms. Hidalgo, 57 and a mother of three, was herself born in Cdiz, did not speak French when she moved to Lyon, and became a French citizen as a teenager. She made her way to law school and worked as a labor relations inspector until getting involved in politics. In her fierce mayoral battle in 2014 against a shining star of the right, Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, she often looked like the underdog, having spent 13 years in the shadow of her charismatic mentor, Mayor Bertrand Delano.Two years later, she is still no firebrand, but she is emerging as a solid, relevant figure on the national political scene, inviting some comparisons with Angela Merkels methodic rise. Could it be her? one recent headline asked, betraying the yearning for fresh leadership amid a French presidential campaign crowded with worn-out politicians. So far, Ms. Hidalgo shows no interest in national office next year. She has found a much safer power base than the nation-state: the global city.Picking up on the theme of a 2013 book by the American political scientist Benjamin Barber, If Mayors Ruled the World: Dysfunctional Nations, Rising Cities, Ms. Hidalgo has made the political dynamics of global cities into a personal cause. We mayors, she recently told the French magazine Society, are more agile because our governance is more horizontal, we are closer to people, we can enforce best practices of other cities. In France, the government is being engulfed by bureaucracy. (This from the mayor of a city with nearly 50,000 employees.)Shrewdly, she prefers to been seen in the company of Sadiq Khan, the new mayor of London, than with President Franois Hollande, a fellow Socialist, whom she doesnt mind confronting on hot-button issues like Frances . Ms. Hidalgo was the first foreign mayor to visit Mr. Khan after his election, making a point, as an immigrant herself, to congratulate the first Muslim mayor of a European capital. They have published two post-Brexit op-ed essays together,  with Mayor Bill de Blasio; they showcased cities that are open to immigrants, green technologies and innovation  one way to point out that even when states divorce, cities can stay close.Other mayors she likes to cite are Karin Wanngard of Stockholm, Manuela Carmena of Madrid and Ada Colau of Barcelona. Ms. Hidalgo is a firm believer in the virtues of exercising power through persuasion, which she sees as a feminine characteristic, rather than by putting a gun on the table, her view of the male technique.She has been working hard at raising her international profile. She wants the French capital to prevail over Los Angeles to host the Olympic Games in 2024. In Rio de Janeiro in August, she was elected president of C40, a network of cities with climate ambitions that represents 85 global cities and, she likes to point out, 650 million people.The world is her stage. Last December, when Paris hosted the , she proudly posed next to Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, among 1,000 mayors from across the planet on the grand staircase of the Htel de Ville, the city hall. Like her, those mayors know that more than half of humankind now live in cities and that by 2030 the ratio will have risen to two-thirds, according to the United Nations. They also know that cities consume 75 percent of the earths resources and generate 80 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Smart cities are where solutions have to be found.According to opinion polls, Ms. Hidalgo has yet to convince nearly half of Parisians  and most people who drive in from the suburbs  that this starts with banning cars on the express lanes along the Seine. Maybe she should try her feminine way of persuasion. The challenge is definitely worth it.The orange highway sign with black letters holds a familiar warning: Lane closed ahead.What do you do?If your instinct is to immediately get out of the lane that will be closing, you may think you are being courteous to fellow drivers by reacting early  but in reality you could be slowing traffic, experts say.It may sound like a breach of etiquette to wait until the last minute to merge, but traffic engineers and transportation departments in several states are promoting that exact move, sometimes with mixed results as they try to overcome drivers ingrained habits.The maneuver is known as the late merge  or , for the way that cars taking turns getting into a lane resembles the teeth of a zipper coming together. The move, in which drivers in dense, slow-moving traffic remain in the lane that will be closed and then pull into the other lane at the merge point, helps ease congestion and drivers frustrations, experts said.As , the author of  noted, Merging late, that purported symbol of individual greed, actually makes things better for everyone. the late merge during a highway project more than 10 years ago. Signs were posted, starting two miles from the point of the lane closing. The first signs read, Use both lanes during congestion.The next signs said, Use both lanes to the merge point. When the lane was ending, the last signs read: Take turns. Merge here.The result? A 15 percent increase in the volume of cars moving through the work zone and a 50 percent decrease in the length of the line, K.C. Matthews, a traffic specifications and standards engineer at the , said in an interview last week.The approach is effective in slow-moving traffic , and it allows drivers to take advantage of the lane that is about to close. In less-dense, free-flowing traffic, there is less need to rely on the late merge, officials said.A work zone engineer for the Kansas Department of Transportation, Kristi Ericksen, said in an email that officials would customarily expect in work zones to see large differences in the speed of traffic (nearly at a standstill in one lane and highway speeds in the adjacent lane) and road rage (rude gestures, eliminating gaps, lane blocking).Since the late merge was introduced, the queues for those two types of lanes are about half the length officials expected, and drivers take turns at the merge point, she said.As for traffic flows, the data suggests that while the speeds are lower and the travel time may not be shorter, traffic continues to move and is predictable, she wrote. In other words, the travel conditions are more reliable, which has its own set of benefits.But when people apply their off-road sensibilities to their driving, the late merge can be harder to manage, Mr. Vanderbilt, the author, said in an interview last week.For instance, a person would be considered rude if he or she walked to the head of a line of customers waiting for a bank teller. A driver in a free lane who zipped to the merge point and then tried to cut in could be judged similarly. Some drivers then take it upon themselves to become traffic monitors, enforcing societal norms and straddling the lanes to block those who might try to get ahead, he said.In a car moving at a certain speed, when the moment comes to make a quick decision, we may become more interested in getting into a battle for progress, he said.When the  tried to promote the zipper merge, officials found that some drivers in the lane that was going to end kept pace with the car next to them whether acting out of perceived courtesy or a sense of vigilante justice, Mr. Vanderbilt wrote in his book.The result was confusion and congestion. Quoting the puzzled Minnesota transportation officials, Mr. Vanderbilt wrote, For some unknown reason, a small number of drivers were unwilling to change their old driving behaviors.Officials report mostly positive feedback from drivers about the late merge, though some occasionally take a dim view of it. Mr. Matthews recalled a Federal Highway Administration official who was in her own vehicle and driving through a lane-widening construction zone in Colorado. She was excited to see a zipper merge in action and zoomed to the merge point in the lane that was to end.Another driver, who was apparently not as impressed as she was, threw a burrito at her car, he said.The kids are hungry, the driver has a headache and everyone has to go to the bathroom. If youre traveling by car on a holiday weekend, the last thing you want to find at a roadside rest stop is a long line for a toilet.Companies that run major highway service plazas in  go to considerable lengths to ensure you never will, as they compete for the coveted Japan Toilet Award from the transportation ministry.Nexco Central Nippon Expressway, which runs 200 of the rest stops, promises that patrons should never have to wait more than two minutes to use the lavatory. The companys award-winning Neopasa Shimizu stop, one of several near Shizuoka City, about 15 miles from Mount Fuji, shows how.To keep things moving at Neopasa Shimizu, where 25,000 people may stop on a busy weekend, there are 72 stalls in the ladies room, compared with 14 stalls and 32 urinals in the mens  a ratio meant to combat the longer waits that women often encounter in public facilities.Technology is put to work, too. A sensor in each stall detects whether it is in use, and relays that information to a large monitor screen mounted outside the restroom. Small icons even indicate whether the available toilets are the Western sitting style or the traditional Japanese squatting style.Of course, those who find these elaborate status panels too confusing can always just walk up and down the stalls, looking for an unlocked door.If we can learn how to appreciate stopping, a whole new world of driving opens up to us.  Michele McDonald, guiding teacher for Vipassana Hawaii and creator of the audio guide Awake at the Wheel: Mindful Driving.NORTH BETHESDA, Md.  Congested and derided, the Rockville Pike thoroughfare, which connects Bethesda and Rockville, troubled local residents, officials and developers for years.Ive lived in this area most of my life, and people would ask where I was from, said Amy Ginsburg, executive director of . I wasnt really from Rockville, and I wasnt really from Bethesda. There was no sense of place, just shopping centers and horrible traffic up and down the pike.Her organization, a nonprofit funded by residents, businesses and property owners, promotes so-called smart-growth development. The movement generally advocates a mix of land uses, higher building density and walkable neighborhoods close to public transit to create stronger communities.Aiming to bring better-planned growth to the area, Montgomery County adopted the  six years ago. The plan, which took its name from the nearby White Flint Metro rail stop,  and the building of pedestrian-minded urban nodes along a 1.7-mile stretch of Rockville Pike.Now, at a major intersection here,  has begun the task of transforming a suburban corridor that has long struggled to establish an identity.BARCELONA  Imagine if streets were for strolling, intersections were for playing and cars were almost never allowed.While it sounds like a pedestrians daydream, and a drivers nightmare, it is becoming a reality here in s second-largest city, a densely packed metropolis of 1.6 million on the Mediterranean. Ever since the 1992 Summer Olympics focused global attention here, this thriving center of tourism, culture and business  often viewed as a hipper, more easygoing cousin to Madrid, the Spanish capital  has seen its popularity soar along with congestion on its streets and sidewalks.So in an initiative that has drawn international attention and represents a transformative remaking of its streetscape, Barcelona has decided that many of its car-clogged streets and intersections will hardly have cars at all. Instead, they will be turned over to pedestrians.Beginning in September, city officials started creating a system of so-called superblocks across the city that will severely limit vehicles as a way to reduce traffic and air pollution, use public space more efficiently and essentially make neighborhoods more pleasant.MOSCOW  The usually busy Moscow street was empty of cars and also of police officers as a light drizzle turned into a downpour.Yet, in a city where traffic rules used to be viewed as entirely optional, a dozen pedestrians all stayed rooted on the sidewalk, waiting obediently in the rain as a red light counted down the 160 seconds they needed to wait before crossing.I always try to follow the rules. I want to live in a civilized country, said Aleksei Smirnov, a 22-year-old courier, when asked why he bothered to wait when there was virtually no risk of getting hit by a car or fined for jaywalking.For anyone who lived in Moscow in the 1990s, a decade-long fiesta of disobedience and bracing liberty, Mr. Smirnovs reverence for the rituals of good behavior is a jolting reminder of how much Russia, or at least its capital, has changed since President  took power in 1999.BOOTHBAY, Maine  The craggy coast of Maine, dotted with lobster shacks, tidal inlets and fishing villages, has long been a popular summertime destination.But beneath the picturesque scenes here is a roiling debate over the areas future.The intensity of the debate is surprising, given that its proximate cause is a rather mundane bit of road construction and whether to add a traffic roundabout on Route 27, which runs down the spine of this peninsula.But the real cause of the inflamed passions is the man pushing the roundabout  a wealthy developer named Paul Coulombe (pronounced Kuh-LOME), who has won as many admirers as adversaries in his few short years here.The debate will come to a head on Nov. 8, the same day as the presidential election, when the question of whether to build the roundabout will appear on the ballot. Although the roundabout would serve as a gateway to the entire region, only Boothbays 2,502 registered voters can vote on it. For now, they appear just as split over the construction as they are over Hillary Clinton and Donald J. Trump.I WAS IN DHAKA, which is to say I was stuck in traffic. The proposition might more accurately be phrased the other way around: I was stuck in traffic, therefore I was in Dhaka. If you spend some time in Bangladeshs capital, you begin to look anew at the word traffic, and to revise your definition. In other cities, there are vehicles and pedestrians on the roads; occasionally, the roads get clogged, and progress is impeded. The situation in Dhaka is different. Dhakas traffic is traffic in extremis, a state of chaos so pervasive and permanent that it has become the citys organizing principle. Its the weather of the city, a storm that never lets up.Dhakaites will tell you that the rest of the world doesnt understand traffic, that the worst traffic jam in Mumbai or Cairo or Los Angeles is equivalent to a good day for Dhakas drivers. Experts agree. In the 2016 Global Liveability Survey, the quality of life report issued annually by the Economist Intelligence Unit, Dhaka ranked 137th out of 140 cities, edging out only Lagos, Tripoli and war-torn Damascus; its infrastructure rating was the worst of any city in the survey. Like other megacities of the developing world, Dhaka is both a boomtown and a necropolis, with a thriving real-estate market, a growing middle class and a lively cultural and intellectual life that is offset by rampant misery: poverty, pollution, disease, political corruption, extremist violence and terror attacks. But it is traffic that has sealed Dhakas reputation among academics and development specialists as the great symbol of 21st-century urban dysfunction, the worlds most broken city. It has made Dhaka a surreal place, a town that is both frenetic and paralyzed, and has altered the rhythms of daily life for its 17.5 million-plus residents. Not long ago, the Dhaka-based Daily Star newspaper published an article titled 5 Things to Do While Stuck in Traffic. Suggested activities included catching up with friends, reading and journaling.The first chapter of my own Dhaka journal begins in March of last year, on a highway that runs south from Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport into the center of town. If you do a web search for this stretch of road, you may come across a Facebook page titled Highway to Hell, Airport Road. Photographs posted online reveal the nature of the hell, aerial shots capturing a scrum of automobiles strewn at odd angles across eight lanes of road. It looks like a Matchbox set that has been scattered by an angry toddler: the morning commute as a cosmic temper tantrum.The Obama administrations approach to hands-free driving is remarkably hands-off.In one of the countrys most heavily regulated industries, the new federal guidelines that are meant to speed the development of self-driving cars give automakers wide latitude. The policy, , would generally let the industry decide for itself how to create supersmart automobiles that can navigate roads on their own, whether driving across town or across the country.The one firm requirement: Make sure those cars are safe. Otherwise, federal officials have warned, the government will exercise its right under current regulations to pull them off the road.And yet, the bulk of the new  is devoted to the goal  produce self-driving cars that prevent accidents and avoid pedestrians and obstacles  without telling automakers how to do it or which technologies to use.The policy is designed to create a path for a fully autonomous driver with different designs than what we have on the road today, Mark Rosekind, head of the , said at Washington news conference on Tuesday. If you look at the policy, it provides that path.Automakers on Tuesday welcomed the hands-off approach.You cant get locked into one technology or approach, and it doesnt seem like they are doing that here, said Brad Stertz, director of government affairs at Audi of America, the German automakers United States arm. They want to have the flexibility to allow the technology to evolve and evolve in the safest way.David Strickland, a former administrator of the federal safety agency who is now general counsel for the Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets, a group that includes Ford Motor, Google and Uber, said the administrations policy set a framework that should allow manufacturers to pull this technology together in an expeditious way.The guidelines, which stop short of formal regulations, have been more than a year in the making.All along the question of safety has hovered over the discussion, particularly as automakers and technology companies have put more test vehicles onto public roads. Google, for example, has logged roughly two million miles of testing with its driverless cars. Uber recently began using a test fleet of autonomous cars for its ride-hailing service in Pittsburgh.More intense scrutiny came this summer after the disclosure that Joshua Brown was killed in Florida when his Tesla Motors car, with its Autopilot system engaged, crashed into a tractor-trailer at highway speed.The Autopilot system, which uses cameras and radar to scan the roadway and can steer Tesla vehicles with little help from the driver, failed to recognize the truck and data showed that neither it nor Mr. Brown hit the brakes before the impact. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is investigating the crash to determine if any safety flaws exist in the Autopilot mode.The accident put a spotlight on semiautonomous systems that can take over many of the driving duties but require human drivers to remain alert and ready to take control at a moments notice. As soon as this week, Tesla is expected to download new software onto its vehicles that will include improvements to Autopilot.Anthony Foxx, secretary of the , said at a news conference on Tuesday that the new guidelines were not aimed at Tesla, and were being developed well before that fatal accident.And yet, several parts of the 116-page policy, address safety issues highlighted by the Tesla crash.Semiautonomous driving systems, the policy says, must take into account the fact that distracted or inattentive drivers may fail to retake control, and the systems could be considered an unreasonable risk to safety and subject to recall.Mike Ramsey, a research director at Gartner Group who focuses on auto technology, said the Transportation Department probably did not add such statements because of the Tesla accident. But the language clearly affects the company, he said.Other companies are rolling out Autopilot-like systems, so its not just Tesla theyre talking about, he said.Tesla says Autopilot is not meant to be a fully autonomous driving system, although YouTube videos have shown some owners driving with no hands on the steering wheel and performing other stunts while the system is active. Tesla cars warn drivers to keep their hands on the wheel and eyes on the road while using Autopilot. The company has said the new version will be even stricter in that regard.Tesla said on Tuesday that it was not ready to comment on the new federal guidelines.Whether the guidelines will become formal policy is uncertain. Automakers and any other interested parties have 60 days to comment to the Transportation Department, a period that will not end until after the presidential election on Nov. 8. A new administration could modify, rework or scrap the guidelines.But the policy received strong backing from auto safety advocates, who pointed out that more than 34,000 people died in auto-related accidents in 2015.Autonomous technology and especially driverless cars can absolutely be game-changers, Colleen Sheehy-Church, the national president of Mothers Against Drunk Driving, said on Tuesday. Autonomous vehicles could potentially stop most traffic deaths in our country.The push for autonomous vehicles is also supported by those who see self-driving cars as a new means of transportation for the disabled, the elderly and others who are unable to drive.OAKLAND, Calif.  The docks at the Port of Oakland are a tangle of cranes, shipping containers, railroad tracks and snaking lines of trucks waiting to load and unload cargo.Streamlining this kind of traffic is one of the few ideas  and  agree on.Mrs. Clinton has said that if she is elected president, her administration  over five years on repairing and improving the nations infrastructure  not just ports but roads, bridges, energy systems and high-speed broadband  and would put an additional $25 billion toward a national infrastructure bank to spur related business investments. Mr. Trump said he wanted to go even bigger, saying his administration would spend  as Mrs. Clinton.Mr. Trump, taking a page from liberal economists, said he would fund his plan by borrowing several hundred billion dollars, but has offered no specifics. Mrs. Clintons more detailed proposal, by contrast, would be paid for by a business tax overhaul aimed at collecting additional revenue from companies that have parked assets abroad.These are only plans, of course. Either would have to get through Congress and the inevitable acrimony over any proposal to raise taxes or add to the .The   and the investigation that followed  caused extensive disruptions on Saturday night into Sunday for car traffic in a large area of the city and for mass transit.The Police Department issued an advisory around 1 a.m. on Sunday that 14th to 32nd Street was closed eastbound and westbound between Fifth and Eighth Avenues, essentially creating a huge zone cut off to cars.By 7 a.m., all of the streets and avenues had been reopened, except for West 23rd Street, which remained closed between Fifth and Eighth Avenues. Subways were bypassing 23rd Street stations on the West Side.The move was connected to the investigation, which included a search of the streets for other possible devices and debris from the explosion, and for video surveillance that might be useful, the police said.  The  app, which is owned by Google, is known for its real-time traffic reports and driving directions that dynamically update based on the latest data available. The apps interface  as they travel, but instances have occurred where  with incorrect information.For example, suburban residents have  of accidents or roadwork in their neighborhoods in hopes of making Waze plot traffic routes away from the area. Highway patrol officers, many of whom are concerned that the Waze app includes a button for reporting police sightings (and  for the ), have also  to obscure their true whereabouts.As Waze is an application that relies heavily on , the overall group of people  can help weed out misinformation from polluting the . When using the app on the road, travelers are encouraged to confirm  or deny  incidents like accidents, construction, highway hazards or police presence. Others passing through can quickly debunk a false report and correct the map.The Waze app itself also has safeguards built in to thwart tampering. As the app uses the smartphones GPS service, the software can tell if the user is in the correct area and in motion at the time of a report. Waze also  who file too many false reports  in an attempt to  in the apps gamelike interface  or to incorrectly alter the map., 59, is a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist whose latest book, , is a wide-ranging look at the planes, trains and cars that Americans have chosen to rely on. We spoke recently in Manhattan and later by phone. Here is an edited and condensed version of those conversations.It grew out of my last book, which was about garbage. As I worked on it, I saw how the average American, myself included, is the most wasteful person on the planet. We are conditioned to waste and to see it as a plus. If were throwing things away, we think we are prosperous.Now, if you look beyond the landfill, how we get ourselves and the stuff we consume around is one of the most wasteful things we do. We drive these vehicles that weigh 4,000 pounds and are built to carry five people and eight suitcases, and most of the time, its just one person and this giant machine going to work. Weve got transportation overkill.I thought there might be a book in that. From the beginning, my task was to avoid doing something encyclopedic, because transportation is such a huge part of our daily existence. Whats the first gift one gets at a baby shower? Its an infant car seat. Whats the last ride you ever take? Its in a hearse.In the transportation world, theres something called the first mile/last mile problem. Its a euphemism for forms of mass transportation, like the bus or the train, that require riders to go to stations or bus stops. Americans prefer to move door to door. They want to close one door and find themselves in front of another.This is one of the reasons why we, as a society, are so car-dependent. Only a system built on trucks and automobiles can do this.And a health problem. And an economic problem.Next to our home, the car is our single largest household expense. Were paying for it round the clock. Yet, it sits idle for 22 hours a day. Plus, its horribly inefficient in how it uses energy. The average car wastes about 80 percent of the gasoline put into it. By comparison, an  uses about 90 percent to actually move the car.In terms of public health, the s data on car crashes showed that in 2015, 38,300 people died and 4.4 million .Because everything we do is designed to produce them. We have fictitious speed limits, because the roads are designed to allow vehicles to travel much faster than stated. We have vehicles capable of achieving far higher speeds than the posted limits. Given this, people go too fast. And speeding, we know, is one of the major causes of fatal crashes.A pedestrian struck by a vehicle going 40 miles an hour has a 10 percent chance of surviving, and one struck by a car at 20 m.p.h. has a 90 percent chance. So when we post a 40-mile maximum speed limit on a boulevard where pedestrians walk, were saying that in the event of a crash, a 90 percent mortality rate is acceptable.These decisions matter. Each of us, over a lifetime, has a one-in-113 chance of dying in a car. Thats crazy, isnt it? So we bolt extra safety devices onto our vehicles, seatbelts and airbags. Those are all great, but they dont get to the fundamental problem: We drive way too fast to survive collisions. The bottom line is that speeding is one of the major causes of fatal crashes.They arent. Most occur because of choices drivers made. If youre chatting on your iPhone while driving, thats a choice. If you get behind the wheel after a few drinks, thats an on purpose. We probably neuter the language because who, at some point, hasnt been speeding or run a red light?In the 1920s, The New York Times referred to what we now erroneously call accidents as . There was more outrage then.At the time, there was a nationwide push to have speed governors placed on cars. These were mechanical devices that kept them from going at high speeds. That effort was pushed back by the car industry. It was never deployed in any substantial way.I have a lot of hope for . The great news about them is that life-or-death decisions will not be left to distracted cellphone users and drag-racing teens.But even before that technology is perfected, a version of those speed governors would help. Certainly, the capability exists right now. Cars already have speed governors in them: cruise control, which permits drivers to set the maximum speed a car should go.If you link navigation apps which know the speed limit for any given road and add it to cruise control, it takes the decision out of the hands of the driver. You use basically off-the-shelf technology, slightly tweaked with some new software, and you have cars that cant speed.I dont have a good answer, other than: Theres no political will to keep people from driving too fast.The irony is that if you keep everyone at the proper speed limit, traffic will move better. Its an illusion that speeding and lane weaving will get you there faster. It often slows things down. And thats not even counting the time lost from speed-induced accidents  I mean car crashes.Even I sometimes call them accidents.The average American commuter  last year. As a nation, we spent eight billion hours sitting in our cars, waiting for lights to change, for the driver ahead to sneak into that parking spot, for an accident to be cleared.Thats not much more time than many Europeans spend in cars. According to Inrix, a roadway and traffic analytics company, drivers and passengers in Belgium spent 44 hours in traffic last year; in Germany, 39 hours.Wherever it happens, new research suggests that all that sitting and waiting is exposing us to more pollutants than wed take in if were we cruising along.According to  published Thursday in Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts, pollution levels inside cars at red lights or in traffic jams are up to 40 percent higher than when traffic is moving.Air quality is already a problem outside of cars:  of people living in cities where pollution is tracked are exposed to air quality levels below World Health Organization limits. The W.H.O. has estimated that  for the deaths of 3.7 million people younger than 60 in 2012.Researchers at the University of Surrey in England took to the streets of Guildford, a typical English town, to look at the effects of traffic on concentrations of polluting particles. They also analyzed how ventilation settings changed those concentrations inside of cars.The scientists took their measurements inside a car as it traveled on a six-kilometer loop, passing through 10 traffic intersections. They tracked the concentrations of different-size particles of air pollution  ranging from course to fine  at each intersection.In a car stuck in traffic, shutting all the windows and turning off the fan or heat reduced concentration doses of the smallest, most hazardous particles by up to 76 percent.The researchers also found an increase in smaller particles inside the vehicle compared with larger ones when the heat was off and fans were on full blast, drawing in air from outside. Those findings suggest that the ventilation system was more effective at filtering out larger particles than smaller ones while stopped at intersections, reducing the concentration doses of those particles up to 68 percent, they said.And while they were only at traffic intersections for about 7 percent of total commuting time on average, the time accounted for as much as 10 percent of their exposure to harmful particles. The exposure was more than six times greater in cars with open windows than for pedestrians at three- or four-way intersections.So when youre stopped at an intersection, roll up the windows, and breathe easier.CAIRO  When it comes to home delivery and services, Cairo has most other places beat.Suffering from a hangover and perhaps some regrets? Costa Coffee will send around a single shot of espresso ($2.70), and the neighborhood pharmacy will dispatch one morning-after pill ($2).Want a Brazilian bikini wax? It can be done in the privacy of your home for $6. Need a birth or death certificate? Just put in a call to the government, which will dispatch it within 72 hours.For city dwellers in , almost anything can be delivered, and for nearly nothing.Home deliveries started with fast food, but have come to include an array of other goods and services. Upscale restaurants will deliver a salad or a single slice of cake; stationers will send pens to the office; liquor stores will supply alcohol if a party runs dry; bakeries will send fresh bread and pastries straight from the oven  most of it carried on the backs of battered old motorcycles.Driving the trend is a middle class willing to spend money to avoid hassles, plus large numbers of poorer people willing to zoom around on motorcycles for less than $10 a day. Given Cairos bad traffic and long, hot summers, the capitals dwellers need little encouragement to pick up the phone. (Deliveries spike especially in July and August, when daytime temperatures rarely drop below 90 degrees.)The customers pay very little for the convenience  delivery charges are typically less than a dollar.It is too hot for anyone to walk, and no one wants to drive through a traffic jam and then have to look for a parking spot, said Shady Ahmed, who delivers for Costa Coffee in Zamalek, an affluent Cairo neighborhood. Why would anyone waste money on a cab coming and going when we can deliver to them for less?Even the governments creaky bureaucracy has seized on the trend. In January, the civil registry created a call center for people to renew their national IDs and then get birth, death and marriage certificates delivered to their homes, a service they can also find online.We did this to make life easier, said Ehab el-Attar, the registrys head. Not everyone can use the internet, and this way they dont waste time coming here and make traffic worse. I dont think this particular service is a proof of laziness. But, he added with a laugh, there is definitely plenty of laziness around.The home delivery culture is spreading into the service sector as well. Now an ailing runner can have her knees X-rayed in bed for about $55, and while she is at it, get a haircut and a pedicure.While businesses have jumped at the opportunities, some of their workers grumble about the customers attitudes. Theyll just sit there with coffee mugs and barely look at you. You just want to tell them, You are not rich, this is just cheap, said Nagat Hosny, a body waxer who does home visits.Mostafa Mahmoud travels the city taking blood from people at home  he is a phlebotomist, not a vampire  and delivers it to Al Borg, one of the capitals leading medical labs.It is often exasperating when you go and find that the person is absolutely fine and just chilling at home, he said. Some even have the audacity to scold you if you are 10 minutes late.With an increasing number of goods and services finding their way to the doorsteps of customers, it was inevitable that some high-tech solutions would also come along.Waleed Rashed is the founder of a company that plans to introduce a delivery app called Voo in October. Voo (the name is meant to suggest the sound of speed) aims to do almost any chore for anyone.There is no incentive to go outside, Mr. Rashed said. Just one hour outside is enough to ruin anyones day.Voo might, for example, pick up keys you left at a friends house and return them to you within an hour for an average of $5, he said.Ingez, an Egyptian company whose name translates as hurry up, has also latched onto the delivery craze. It offers services such as driving sundry goods  a single cellphone cover, say  from one end of Cairo to another for as little as $2.50, or taking flowers to someone in the hospital on behalf of a busy relative.Sometimes we find it funny, said Ahmed Farouk, the companys manager of operations. I personally wouldnt request a delivery for a small order myself, but people generally are never shy about it.Ammar Ali Hassan, a prominent Egyptian novelist and political sociologist, attributes such attitudes to the return of many relatively affluent Egyptians who were guest workers in Saudi Arabia and other countries on the Persian Gulf.Many were influenced by the Gulf, Mr. Hassan said. They think, Oh I am a big deal and can act like a member of the upper class now. I am too big for queues. Home delivery has become so habitual here that Egyptians abroad tend to feel deprived.Salma Adel, a young Egyptian physician who moved to Ireland more than a year ago, said delivery was one of the things she missed most.It has to be up there with family, she said. Its not like its just fast food. Its all food.Theres something beautiful about being able to conjure up a beautiful meal out of thin air when youre sat at home and cant be bothered to cook, she added.At 6:30 a.m. on Wednesday, like so many mornings before, Michael Schenkman, 78, was doing what he loved: riding his bike near his home in Queens.Mr. Schenkman pedaled east on Northern Boulevard, maneuvering alongside traffic with the same care as he would drive a motor vehicle. An avid cyclist, he also taught drivers education for several years; he knew the rules of the road, his sons said.When he was near 223rd Street, and one turn away from the Cross Island Parkway bike trail in Bayside, he began to merge from the center lane onto the left. Suddenly, a black Chevrolet Impala struck him, dragging him about 25 feet and leaving him fatally injured.For cycling enthusiasts, Mr. Schenkmans death was particularly unsettling because it was the 15th cyclist fatality caused by a motor vehicle so far this year, exceeding the total number of bike deaths reported in New York City during all of 2015, according to data provided by the Transportation Department. Last year, the city reported 11 cycling fatalities by Aug. 24.Theres been a creeping anger that the city isnt doing more to prevent these deaths, said Paul Steely White, executive director of Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group for pedestrians and cyclists.The increased number of cycling fatalities deals a blow to one of Mayor Bill de Blasios signature efforts: Vision Zero, a plan to eliminate traffic deaths in the city by 2024. While the city has increased the number of protected bike lanes, further enforced traffic violations and lowered the default speed limit to 25 miles per hour, cycling activists say more needs to be done.Mr. White said too many roads lacked safety improvements like protected bike lanes, pedestrian safety islands and greater visibility at crosswalks. Northern Boulevard, where Mr. Schenkman died, is notoriously dangerous, Mr. White said. It has been designated as a priority corridor for Vision Zero improvements but has not seen any safety upgrades, he said.Its a lack of conviction to what on paper and in rhetoric is a top mayoral priority, Mr. White said.Cycling fatality numbers have fluctuated over the course of the past several years; in 2014, the city reported a total of 20 cycling deaths, and in 2013 it recorded 12, according to Transportation Department data.We maintain that one fatality is one too many, Austin Finan, a City Hall spokesman, said in a statement. And well continue to invest in lifesaving initiatives like these until we achieve Vision Zeros ultimate goal.The city continues to expand the Citi Bike program as well. Officials met on Thursday to announce that stations would be available in several more neighborhoods in Brooklyn.In an effort to call on the city to devote more resources to improving bike safety, Transportation Alternatives will be gathering with other cycling advocates on Sept. 15 to hold a Ride for Mayoral Action. The organization will also be dedicating its NYC Century Bike Tour on Sept. 10 to Mr. Schenkman.Peter Schenkman, Mr. Schenkmans son and a former assistant commissioner for safety and emissions on the citys Taxi and Limousine Commission, said he hoped his fathers death would shed light on the importance of creating protected bike lanes, especially on hectic roads like Northern Boulevard.Were not a bike-friendly city, Peter Schenkman said. Were the greatest city in the world, but there are a lot of things we still dont understand.Michael Schenkman spent a majority of his life around cars or bikes. For many years, he taught industrial arts and automotive technology to middle and high school students in Valley Stream, N.Y., Peter Schenkman said. He also worked as a drivers education teacher in Jamaica, Queens.After retiring from teaching, he operated a Volvo specialty auto repair business in Flushing, Queens. Most recently, he spent seven years working as a driver for Betsy Gotbaum, a former public advocate for the city.During the last years of his life, one of his biggest joys was to go for jogs and for long bike rides, often biking nearly 20 miles a day, every day, Peter Schenkman said.He decided he was going to become an Ironman, I guess, Peter Schenkman said. He knew the ins and outs of every trail.His brother, A. J. Schenkman, recalled their father as a kind and talented handyman who made sure his children understood the importance of driving defensively and responsibly. He said he was going to miss being able to talk to his father every night.I feel shattered, A.J. Schenkman said. Its like being blown apart.The ostrich is as tall as the cars around it, and running at a fair pace in the fast lane of the Federal Highway, which links Kuala Lumpurs city center to , its largest satellite town. As the video of the surreal incident  the result of a tame ostrichs escaping from captivity   on social media in June, what struck many observers was that the giant bird was able to run so freely along the busiest of the capitals many traffic-clogged highways. An hour or two later and the adventurous ostrich would have been hemmed in by gridlocked traffic, just like the rest of us.Traffic dominates the daily lives of those who live and work in Kuala Lumpur and the network of smaller but still populous cities that surround it, collectively known as the Klang Valley. Conversations between friends often begin with comparisons of recent experiences of traffic jams. (My current gripe: an hour to drive six and a half miles from Damansara Heights to Taman Megah, which Google tells me should take 15 minutes.) People become accustomed to their dinner guests arriving an hour late; parents wake their children earlier than ever to ensure they get to school on time.As Malaysia navigates its way from developing country to middle-class-nation status, the battle of its capital city against worsening traffic will play a crucial role in shaping the countrys 21st-century identity. Next to its regional neighbors, will it be a choking urban sprawl (think Jakarta) or a hyper-efficient, sustainable metropolis (think Singapore)?A large part of Kuala Lumpurs traffic nightmare is caused by its love affair with the automobile  as elsewhere, a key symbol of wealth. According to the consumer data company , car ownership in Malaysia is among the highest in the world  a staggering 93 percent of households own at least one car. And Malaysian motorists are hungry for more: In the Nielsen survey, seven out of 10 respondents said they hoped to purchase a new vehicle in the next two years.Car ownership expresses social aspiration, too: Nearly two-thirds of respondents in the survey saw their cars as status symbols. And 88 percent of Malaysians intended to upgrade their car as soon as finances allow. In Kuala Lumpur alone, about 1,000 new cars are  every day.Getting these newly middle-class drivers out of their status symbols and onto public transportation is a monumental task, further complicated by the sprawling nature of the suburbs and the network of smaller conurbations that make up greater Kuala Lumpur. In any case, a severe lack of options in mass transit  with especially poor rail connections outside the metropolitan area  makes traveling by private car the only choice for many journeys. Only 20 percent of trips in the capital are made by public transportation.The Klang Valleys principal bus operator, Rapid KL, complains of a chronic shortage of bus drivers to cover its 160 routes, resulting in erratic schedules and low ridership  the daily passenger total numbers only about 280,000 out of the Klang Valleys total population of seven million. The citys two main train lines  the Light Rail Transit and Monorail  are efficient and affordable but operate just two routes each.At present, only one 3.5-mile stretch of bicycle lane exists, and Malaysias year-round stifling heat makes even the shortest cycle commute uncomfortable. For many residents, the cheap and plentiful taxis are the main alternative; the recent arrival of Uber has provided a further option. But these cars add to, rather than relieve, congestion on the roads.With Kuala Lumpurs traffic crisis getting worse every year, City Hall has come up with a series of projects to mitigate the problem. The most ambitious, announced to great fanfare in 2010, is the construction of the Mass Rapid Transit, a rail line that circles the capital, with further lines connecting the loop to the city center. The first stage, linking several densely populated suburban areas, should be completed by the end of the year. Plans to charge motorists entering the city center, like similar operations in Singapore and London,  into effect next year, once the first stage of the new transit system is running.At stake is not just the daily grumbling of Kuala Lumpurs motorists, but the citys future as a competitive, livable city. A 2015 World Bank report  that Kuala Lumpurs population wastes up to 500 million hours of work a year idling in traffic, burning up to 1.2 billion liters (about 315 million gallons) of fuel; these losses are estimated to exceed 2 percent of the countrys gross domestic product. Simply put, the amount of time commuters here spend every year doing nothing in their cars costs the equivalent of more than a months average wages.The success of the new rail system is crucial to the ambitions of a city hoping to strengthen its image as one of the worlds friendliest places to do business. Its also essential to the continued stability of one of Asias most racially diverse cities. With sizable ethnic Chinese and Indian communities living alongside the Malay-Muslim majority, the linking of areas traditionally populated by one group or another is key to enabling the city to function as a rich cultural melting pot.As for the ostrich, a young female named Chickaboo, all ended happily. After a brief chase, she was recaptured and safely returned to the farm where she was born. Her escapade was a hit in Kuala Lumpur, personifying what many of us feel: better to take your chances on foot than get caught in rush hour.


  The impact of Monday's  protests has continued to impact mass transport services in Bengaluru. Namma  authorities in a media statement have said that due to curfew imposed in some areas, Metro services on September 13 are temporally suspended. "We will resume on being advised by the police," the statement added.
  
  
  Full fledged city bus service is yet to resume as  authorities have said that they will resume operations once the situation gets back to normalcy. "Only about 100 buses are operating since morning," said an official.
  
  
  Interstate bus services between Karnataka and  are also suspended.
  
  
  On Monday, Metro was the first public transport to shut operations at all its stations.
  
  
  While, the BMTC had initially withdrawn the service from  satellite bus stand after the protests broke out on Monday. Later in the day, however, it withdrew service in many parts of Bengaluru.
  
  

BENGALURU: The Bangalore Metropolitan Tranportation Corporation is all set to bring up a modern bus terminal at Kalasipalya, a new depot at Anjanapura and an employees quarters at Gunjur. The BMTC laid the foundation stone to begin the construction and chief minister Siddaramaiah and Ramalinga Reddy, transport minister inaugurated the function held in the city on Thursday.The modern bus terminal at Kalasipalya will be constructed on an area spreading over 4 acres and will have a number of facilities, said BMTC officials. The terminal will hold platforms for BMTC, KSRTC and inter state buses as well as a score of amenities including a subway connectivity to the metro rail. The project costs Rs 60 Crore.At Anjanapura, the bus depot will be constructed over an area of 1 acre. From the depot, 35 schedules with 361 trips will be operated on a daily basis. At Gunjur Employees Quarters, each quarter will consist of 36 2BHK houses built over 620 sq ft.BMTC further plans to open operations at the newly constructed depots at Mandur and Kodathi. Further, 6 traffic and transit management centers (TTMC) in Hebbal, Jayanagar 4th 'T' Block, Kathriguppe, Electronic City, Yelahanka (Puttenahalli), Chikkabettahalli (M S Palya) is underway, says BMTC.BENGALURU: School and college students interested to avail Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) bus passes can avail the facility at only 12 counters namely at Kempegowda Bus station, Banashankari TTMC, Jayanagara TTMC, Shivajinagara Bus staion, Yashavanthapura TTMC, Vijayanagara TTMC, Kengeri TTMC, Kalyananagara Bus station, KR Puram, Shanthinagar TTMC, Yelahanka Upanagara and Electronic City. In this regard the students are requested to avail the passes within August 15, 2016.Though, BMTC, starting June 6 with a view to facilitate the students community has issued the student concessional passes from in various 40 counters in and around Bengaluru. However, already 70% of the students availed the students' concessional passes and in most of the pass issue counters only 20 to 30 passes are being issued per day. For this reason, passes will be issued only in 12 counters and remaining student concessional pass issue counters have been withdrawn with effect from August 1, 2016. If Air India went on strike tomorrow, the common man would not care a tuppence. If BSNL or Doordarshan went on a dharna, nobody would give a damn. Life would continue as usual. But around 25 years ago, such events would have affected the daily lives of people. The entry of the private sector in multiple areas in the wake of reforms took away the power state-owned companies had over the lives of ordinary citizens. So in this new age of market economy, it's a crying shame that the public transport sector, the backbone and lifeline of an economy, is choking under the yoke of two state-run moribund companies - KSRTC and its cousin BMTC, both glaring anachronisms. The state has mortgaged its wealth and future to a few inefficient, loss-making government- owned companies and has painted itself into a corner wherein a few thousand employees can hold the state ransom and bring it to its knees.While crony capitalism usurps the state's critical resources through a nexus with politicians and government functionaries to benefit from favourable laws and tax concessions, crony socialism is equally pernicious. Large state-owned corporations snuff out competition allowing ruling parties and bureaucrats to defraud the exchequer by appointing their cronies to these companies, who in turn dispense favours and lucrative contracts to their kin. Dakshina Kannada, the cradle of entrepreneurship and showcase of Indian enterprise, has nurtured five great banks, great educational institutions and the ubiquitous Udupi hotels among others. It is a classic example of private sector buses competing with the state-owned KSRTC. This has generated thousands of jobs directly and indirectly in every corner of the district, creating a vibrant and resilient economy which is the pride of Karnataka. Similarly, about 10 other districts have private passenger buses competing with KSRTC. When we have a successful model in our own state to emulate, why is this government mutely and helplessly witnessing the frequent strikes by the employees of government- owned companies?Those who bear the brunt of the disruption of these essential services are the people at the bottom of the pyramid, solely dependent on BMTC. If the government is keen on generating employment, growth and building a robust economy that will have a ripple effect across sectors to increase service levels to customers, then it must allow the private sector to participate in transportation and compete with state enterprises. This will render the KSRTC and BMTC redundant in the coming years and give the common man relief till the Metro expands and more people with rising incomes opt for Olas and Ubers. BENGALURU: Normal life is set to be disrupted in Bengaluru and rest of the state with 1.23 lakh workers of four public transport utilities sector launching an indefinite strike from Sunday midnight for a wage hike.Transport services were partially curtailed in several parts of the city on Sunday itself, indicating the strike by BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC is likely to be total. Around 23,000 KSRTC, BMTC and regional RTC buses will be off the roads.The chief minister announced a holiday for schools and colleges across the state on Monday and Tuesday , but left the final decision to the deputy commissioners. While schools in Bengaluru Urban district will be closed for two days, in Bengaluru Rural district they will remain closed on Monday . Dakshina Kannada and Udupi administration has decided not to impose holidays for schools and colleges in their districts since 90% of the commuters depend on private buses.Transport authorities, meanwhile, stepped in with alternatives. Minister Ramalinga Reddy said they have roped in 30,000 private buses and 80,000 maxi-cabs for commuting in the city . We have the provision of imposing Esma (Essential Services Maintenance Act), but refrained because we want to settle the issue amicably," Ramalinga Reddy added.Autorickshaws and cabs are expected to operate as usual. The Metro authorities have decided to increase frequency , depending on passenger demand.BMRC's chief public relations officer UA Vasanth Rao said the Metro will run every five minutes from the current six during peak hours, if if there is a huge rush.Transport commissioner Rame Gowda said, "We've asked Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra and other states to deploy as many buses as possible." The department has asked enforcement officers to allow private buses and maxi-cabs to pick up passengers from designated bus stops and also along the way, and and function like BMTC.BENGALURU: The Indian Vehicle Drivers Trade Union (IVDTU) with a strength of over 1 lakh drivers has decided to support over 55,000 KSRTC and 35,554 BMTC workers who will be going on an indefinite strike from July 25, . The KSRTC and BMTC drivers have been demanding for a 15% hike in DA.Gandasi Sadananda Swamy, president of IVDTU, said: "The workers have been demanding for a pay hike and increase in uniform allowance and medical allowance for the last 16 years. However, the government has failed to respond to their demands properly. This has forced the workers to go on a strike as it is the last resort for them."In order to avoid unnecessary chaos in the city and inconvenience for the citizens, the president has also appealed to transport minister, R Ramalinga Reddy to take positive steps for fulfilling the demands of KSRTC and BMTC workers. "Out of six unions supporting the KSRTC and BMTC workers, two have already withdrawn support. Negotiation is still going on with the higher officials," said a spokesperson from KSRTC.BENGALURU: The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will resume its feeder services along Reach 1 of Namma Metro, in and around Indiranagar, to provide last-mile connectivity to Metro commuters. The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) will announce the results of the 2016 SSLC supplementary exams on Thursday at 3pm. It will be available on www.sslc.kar.nic.in or http//karresults.nic.in. 


  CHANDIGARH: 's (AAP) national convener  released the party's trade, industry and transport manifesto for Punjab on Sunday in Ludhiana. Among other promises, the party proposes to end liquor mafia in the state and come up with a comprehensive  that will also take care of haphazard development.
  
  
  The document released by Kejriwal says "trade, industry and transport sectors will be made corruption free with elimination of 'inspector raj' and 'raid raj'. Self-certification regime for all NOCs and consents in businesses and tax regime will be simplified and transparent. VAT and other taxes will be reduced on Delhi pattern."
  
  
  "In five years, Punjab will have the lowest tax rate. One time settlement of pending tax related cases. VAT refund to be expedited. Workable and responsive Single Window System for approvals and clearances for all types of industry including real estate. Special impetus will be given to new industry, including IT. Revival of sick units in Mandi Gobindgarh, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Batala, Pathankot, Nangal, Bathinda and all other industrial towns will be ensured in a time-bound manner through a series of measures, including two-year tax holiday. Special package to ring back industry that fled the state," it adds.
  
  
  If voted to power, the party plans to kickstart industrial revival, un-utilised lands in under-developed Industrial Estates, allotting growth centres and focal points to industry at affordable rates and/ or lease. Electricity Tariff will be substantially reduced by nailing corruption and enabling optimum efficiency of systems. Anti-Punjab Power Agreements with private plants will be reviewed and those responsible for burdening the people of the state will be punished.
  
  
  A new industrial township with special incentives will be developed in Ropar to kickstart state-of-the-art environment-friendly IT and other industry to generate employment in the backward Kandi belt adjoining Himachal Pradesh.
  
  
  A comprehensive real estate policy will review distortion of master plans and revive the housing sector in consultation with all stakeholders. Uniformity in regulations and coordination between all government development agencies, like PUDA, GLADA, GMADA, Improvement Trusts, Municipal Corporations etc. will be ensured.
  
  
  Elimination of Reta-Bajri Mafia in Punjab; mining licences to young entrepreneurs and SIT to unearth collection of "Goonda Tax" through Akali-BJP & Congress collusion have also been promised.
  
  

Bijnor: Four persons were killed in two separate road mishaps on Saturday. The incidents occurred near Bijnors ring road and Noorpur area. Enraged over the incident, local residents blocked the state highway.  According to police, three persons were crushed to death near Daulatpur village in Noorpur area when the car in which they were travelling collided with a tractor trolley. The deceased have been identified as 60-year-old Gopal Tyagi, 50-year-old Balram Tomar of Raja Ka Tajpur village and Devraj Singh of Bijnors Sarvoday colony. They were on their way to Noorpur from Moradabad.  After the incident, the driver of the tractor trolley sped away, leaving the tractor on road. Police said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem.  According to SHO Noorpur, Ajay Kumar Singh, We have seized the tractor trolley and registered a case against unidentified driver. Police is investigating the matter and trying to trace the accused.  In another incident, a 28-year-old cyclist Vipin Kumar of Salmabad village was killed when he was trying to cross the road and was hit by a truck. Vipin died on the spot. Enraged villagers ran to the spot and blocked the traffic for hours. After getting information about the incident, police rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the agitators. Police have arrested the accused driver and seized the truck.  SHO Bijnor RR Katheria said that a case has been registered against the accused.  Meanwhile, a truck turned turtle on Delhi-Pauri highway that blocked the roads for hours. However, no casualties were reported. The vehicles were lined up for 11 kilometres. The commuters were asked to use an alternative route.

  Kozhikode: City  authorities have commenced the preliminary work for the selection of  which will be developed using generates  in its limit. Itwill be executed on an experimental basis in the first financial year.
  
  
  It has taken steps for the construction of plastic roads on the basis of government direction which asked to make use of plastic waste for the road works for the effective disposal of generated plastic waste in its limit.
  
  
  A preliminary official level discussion about taking up ten percent of total road works in the local self-government bodies making use of mixture of plastic waste and bitumen was already held during a review meeting of secretaries of local self-government bodies held at the directorate of urban affairs on August 11.
  
  
  According to the corporation authorities, of the Rs 47.24 crore earmarked for the road works for the financial year 2016-2017, the civic body has set aside a sum of Rs 25.53 crore for road works. TNN
  
  
  



  KOLKATA: A person was killed and two were seriously injured on Saturday evening when three buses raced each other on VIP Road. An app-cab was also hit in the accident. The incident comes two days after four persons were injured in  when two buses raced each other.
  
  
  According to sources, a Tollygunge-airport  bus was rushing towards airport when a private bus started to race with it after crossing Ultadanga. When the private bus of  route tried to overtake the CTC bus near Lake Town, another private bus of route 45 picked up speed to overtake it. When the buses approached Kestopur, one of the drivers tried to overtake a cyclist, Nimai Bala. The rider was crushed between the Baruipur-Barasat and Tollygunge-airport buses.
  
  
  Trying to flee the spot, the CTC bus hit an Ola cab from behind and then hit the divider before it came to a halt. Another bus, of the  route, could not control its pace and hit the CTC bus from behind. Apart from the Ola cab driver, a few bus passengers were injured, sources said.
  
  
  Irate locals blocked the road protesting against police inaction along VIP Road. They alleged that racing each other near Kestopur is nothing new for the buses plying along VIP Road
  
  



  AURANGABAD: The 's (AMC) plan to lay concrete roads across the city through government funding is stuck in limbo with no sign of the state releasing any  for the project.
  
  
  Two months ago, the municipal authorities had sent a proposal to the state in which it identified 44 roads to be laid at an expense of around Rs 150 crore.
  
  
  Civic chief Om  told TOI on Saturday the AMC is still expecting the funds to come in. "The administration and civic body's office bearers are consistently following up on the matter. We hope that the much needed funds will pave the way for road construction work."
  
  
  Bakoria added that the priority is being given to roads leading to tourist spots. "Apart from this, some important roads have also been included in the proposal sent to the state recently," he said.
  
  
  However, a civic official told TOI that after the state announced financial help to the AMC for the smart cities scheme, the possibility of receiving any more funds is very thin. "It is common practice for municipal authorities to demand funds for various projects, but that does not mean that the state would accept the proposal and release funds," the source said.
  
  
  Recently, mayor Trimbak Tupe said a team of six to seven office-bearers including the mayor, deputy mayor, opposition leaders and other party group leaders would soon meet chief minister  and request him to release the funds.
  
  
  At the recent state cabinet meeting at Aurangabad, Fadnavis announced that the state would also bear the civic body's share of funds (Rs 250 crore) under the smart city scheme. It was highlighted that the civic body would then be spared huge amount of money, which could be used for building roads.
  
  
  Office-bearers and AMC officials had claimed that the municipal body could comfortably construct concrete roads over the next few years as it could spare enough funds for the cause.
  
  
  While preparing the outline of the smart city project, the municipal administration had made provisions for raising Rs 250 crore over a period of next three years. The authorities had also earmarked a fund of Rs 50 crore in the financial budget of the current fiscal.
  
  
  



  HUBBALLI: The state government is fulfilling the promises of providing facilities to the family of Siachen braveheart , said district in-charge minister Vinay Kulkarni on Saturday.
  
  
  Presenting documents related to the site given to the martyr's wife, Mahadevi Koppad at the Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (Huda) office, Kulkarni said that the government has already handed over a cheque of Rs 25 lakh to the family. "The remaining demand for 4 acres of land and a government job to the martyr's wife will be given soon. We are also thinking to name a road after the brave soldier," he stated.
  
  
  Kundagol MLA C S Shivalli informed that the taluk administration has already identified 4 acres of land at Mattigatti village in Kundagol taluk to be allotted to the Koppad family. "We have already sent a proposal to the government through the deputy commissioner.
  
  
  MLA Arvind Bellad said that the government should conduct marathon in the memory of Hanumanthappa.
  
  
  Hanumanthappa's mother Basavva Koppad, former Huda chairman Danappa Kabber, MLC Pradeep Shettar, deputy commissioner S B Bommanahalli, Huda members Kiran Patil, Vijayanand Shetty, Sandeep Rokade, Prabhakar and Saroja Hugar were present on the occasion.
  
  



  NAGPUR: The BJP-led coalition  (NVA) ruling the  wants a smooth ride during the civil polls, for which, the civic body is all set to undertake a massive road  drive. In addition to the  of 48km roads, the civic body's aim is to pave most internal  that remained neglected in the last four-and-a-half years.
  
  
  The municipal corporation's standing committee hurriedly cleared almost 50 crore for road asphaltation this month and is set to clear another 23.99 crore in its meeting scheduled to be held on October 26.
  
  
  Apart from 300 crore phase II cement roads, the NVA had targeted expenditure of approximately 350 crore for repair, re-laying and asphaltation of roads across the city from 2012 to 2017, but so far it could only set aside 39% of the funds for the job. The coalition initiated maximum road works in current financial year.
  
  
  According to NMC's PWD department, between 2008-2012 the civic body earmarked 293.243 crore for road works across the city. But, it spent only 115.86 crore.
  
  
  "The identified roads will be tarred within a couple of months," standing committee chairman  told TOI. He said that work would commence soon.
  
  
  "Apart from administrative approval to call for tenders, proposals for work orders have been issued for around 50 crore and we have already asked the corporators from all parties to put up proposals of roads in bad condition. Once the proposals are submitted in the respective executive engineer's office, the work of those roads would also be cleared. We have ensured quality work during the asphalting and there would be no scope for any compromise," said Raut.
  
  Raut also said that the NMC will easily arrange funds needed for asphaltation of roads.
  
  
  However, corporators from opposition parties alleged that the ruling civic body was trying to make the maximum mileage since the NMC elections were round the corner. They said that the  should be held responsible for neglecting the city. "Contractors who carry out poor road work should be made answerable for damage within one year of the work. But the corporation has not acted against anyone for poor work," said leader of opposition in NMC Vikas Thakre. "It is the unholy nexus between ruling party and contractors that was preventing action against contractors who fail to carry out works properly," alleged the senior Congress corporator.
  
  
  While the opposition is not pleased, a majority of Nagpurians welcomed the road works but they fear that the quality of roads would be shabby as the civic body has never bothered to ensure quality works.
  



  Colva: No sooner did  conclude, with it the work to four-lane the Old Market-Colva road too has been abandoned. The  (GSIDC) which was working at a frenetic pace to see to it that the road was ready before the summit, could not keep its deadline, and now the project has come to a halt.
  
  
  When the work was on, chief minister  had boasted that the road would resemble 'Parliament road' in New Delhi.
  
  
  But now, not a single labourer can be seen doing any work on the extension of the road and the multi-channel drain on either side of the road. This is causing a lot of heartburn among the residents and the business community along the four-km stretch.
  
  
  Residents and businesses are suffering. Stores, restaurants, hotels and showrooms along the stretch do not have proper access to their homes and establishments. The muddy road is causing a lot of dust pollution with the movement of vehicles, which is getting into homes and shops. Water lines have been damaged during excavation and water is stagnating infront of commercial-cum-residential complexes.
  
  
  GSIDC had commenced work on this road during the last week of August. At that time, 10-12 heavy earthmoving machinery could be seen working on a daily basis. Some machinery was used to demolish structures that had come up in the acquired land, others excavating roots of huge trees, some machinery was used only to dig trenches for the multi-channel drain, while others were used to fill excavated mud into trucks.
  
  
  Jose Gomes, 79, says that local residents have been suffering for sometime now. "We have difficulty in getting the car in the garage. Our doors and windows cannot be opened, because of dust and all the 10 houses in the row are facing the same problem". He is also upset as GSIDC cut three of his high-yielding mango trees."They were planted in the acquired area, but they were giving shade. The government could have put benches under them alongside the extended road. The contractor said they would complete the work fast, but after Brics, I can't see a single worker all along the stretch," he said.
  
  
  Suchita Naik, who runs a general store, said "The road looks open and broad, but after they completed it, my customers do not have a proper path to walk on. I do not want to make it an issue, but they have to complete it at the earliest". Maybe they will commence after , she hopes.
  
  
  GSIDC chairman Pramod Sawant, when contacted, seemed unaware of the work being abandoned and assured to immediately ask his manager to get in touch with the contractor concerned to know the status of the project.
  



  PUDUCHERRY: Battery-operated  will soon hit the roads of the Union territory of  after the government decided to issue permits to  without any restriction besides reducing the value-added tax (Vat) on the vehicles from 14.5% to 2%.
  
  
  Initially Puducherry government permitted plying of e-rickshaws within boulevard areas. Now, the government has decided to issue permit to ply the vehicles throughout the territory. The Puducherry government's efforts to promote pollution-free and noiseless transportation comes as part of the move to acquire 'smart city' tag for the Union territory.
  
  
  "Battery-operated rickshaws are popular in many north Indian states. There has been delay in launching the e-rickshaws in Puducherry following confusion over issuing permit. However chief minister's (V Narayanasamy) announcement that government will issue permit for e-rickshaws without any restriction has revived our hopes to introduce the eco-friendly vehicles in the town, " said Manosh Bardhan, proprietor of Altenergiez, which has taken dealership for the vehicle for the Union territory.
  
  
  He said the Union government has gone one step further to promote e-rickshaws and issued notification declaring that vehicles do not need any permit. Explaining the salient features Bardhan said the vehicle is not only absolutely pollution free but is the most economical form of transport.
  
  
  "The vehicle can carry four passengers apart from the driver. It can run 80km to 90km on full charge. It will give considerably higher returns due to its low running cost and can replace the petrol or diesel autos," Bardhan said. The government has also announced road tax exemption for the vehicle for five years.
  
  
  



  ERODE: The protective walls on both sides of , a stretch that connects Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, are completely damaged for long , posing life-threatening danger to motorists. The walls are cracked from the foundation in several places. For drivers, especially those on two-wheelers, it's a scary challenge.
  
  
  "Most side walls of the ghat road are damaged to such an extent that they are almost non-existent. The highways department officials have still not taken any steps to reconstruct the protection walls," said S K Nandhakumar, a truck driver. Motorists have to be extra careful while  at night on the stretch.
  
  
  Dhimbam Ghat Road has 27 hairpin bends and it is the primary route for truckers carrying goods from Tamil Nadu and Kerala to the northern states via Karnataka. Similarly, trucks carrying steel, cement and pulses from northern states enter Tamil Nadu from the ghat road, making it an arterial stretch.
  
  
  With the ghat road being busy round the clock and accidents a common occurance, road users have demanded the national and state highways department officials to "not turn a blind eye towards its maintenance".
  
  
  Also the lack of streetlights has always been a cause for concern, with motorists solely depending on the headlights to steer themselves on the winding route. "You can't lose your concentration on the stretch. Mistakes can result in vehicles ending up in deep gorges," said M Mahesh, another driver.
  
  
  When contacted by TOI, the state highways department officials said that they have sent a letter to the Tamil Nadu government, seeking permission to widen the road. "We will initiate the work once we get money and permission from the government," the official said.
  
  
  



  NAVI MUMBAI: The Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has served  to , nurseries and watermelon shop owners to remove the illegal encroachments on Sion Panvel highway side. The illegal encroachments, on the stretch between NH-4B bypass and the  are spread between Kalamboli junction and Khanda Colony, will be removed.
  
  
  Footpaths will be constructed along the Kalamboli to Panvel stretch of highway and gardens will also be developed to beautify the area. The MSRDC has given its consent for the project.
  
  
  The Panvel city municipal commissioner, Dr Sudhakar Shinde, said, "The notices have been served. The encroachments will be removed by our squad. We are focusing on city beautification and hence this stretch will be beautified. After visiting this stretch, I had spoken to the MSRDC."
  
  
  Shinde added that the gardens will be developed in this area to enhance the look of the city.
  
  
  City resident C B Raut said, "This is a welcome move. The illegal encroachments need to be removed. The MSRDC should also start the highway widening work as massive traffic jam is witnessed in this stretch daily." he said.
  
  
  PCMC has already started taking action against illegal banners that deface the cityscape. Aiming to generate a revenue of around Rs 20 crore per annum from legal advertising spots, the corporation continues to crackdown on illegal hoardings and banners. In the last few weeks, a whopping 16,000 illegal banners were removed. The civic body will also set up a public helpline.
  
  
  



  DEHRADUN: Chief minister Harish  on Saturday visited  district to interact with members of Dhad NGO. The organisation played a key role in rehabilitating hundreds of kids and widows who were rendered homeless after they lost all their possessions in the 2013 deluge.
  
  
  Rawat met all the victims of the disaster and assured them all possible assistance from the government.
  
  
  Addressing the residents of Guptkashi, Rawat announced that a three-member commission will be constituted to study the social, economic and psychological aspects of the victims.
  
  
  "On the basis of the recommendations of the detailed study, we will provide financial assistance to these victims."
  
  
  Rawat said 1,000 new roads will be constructed by 2018 to connect all the remote villages.
  



  CHENNAI: A total of 450 government buses that have been impounded because of the respective managements' inability to pay compensation to victims of road accidents involving state-run vehicles, are back on road, as Madras high court has set them 'free' keeping in mind the . The court has asked the transport corporations to deposit 25% of the award amount to get the vehicles released, and then pay the remaining sum in three instalments.
  
  
  Buses are 'attached' and put out of service whenever the  State Transport Corporations are unable to pay the compensation amount even after execution petitions are won by the victims' kin. The number has now touched 450.
  
  
  Managements of the respective transport corporations having a large inventory of 'attached' buses, then moved the high court saying  was fast approaching and there was a need to operate more buses during the festival, as number of passengers would be more.
  
  
  The single judge before whom the petitions came acceded to the plea, saying: "The buses have been attached for non-payment of award amounts. By keeping the buses in court custody, the claimants are not able to get compensation money and the transport corporations are also put to loss because of the attachment of the buses. Consequently, the travelling public are put to untold hardships because of non-plying of the buses."
  
  
  "This court directs the respective tribunal to release forthwith the attached vehicles, on condition that the transport corporations shall deposit 25% of the compensation amount along with interest and costs to the credit of the respective claim petition before the tribunal on or before November 28. The balance amounts of 75% has to be deposited before the respective Tribunal in the following ratio -- 25% on or before January 9, 2017, another 25% on or before February 20, 2017 and the last instalment of 25% on or before April 3," said the judge.
  
  
  Referring to the earlier round of litigation initiated during the summer holidays and the consequent rush of holidaying passengers, the judge said: "By granting release of the vehicles on condition to deposit as stated above, no prejudice is caused to the claimants, as the award amount is directed to be deposited in the court. This court is aware of the fact that even the awards which were passed 5 to 10 years ago, are not satisfied by the transport corporations. This order is passed to benefit both the claimants and the transport corporations."
  
  

CHANDIGARH: A 62-year old pedestrian, Ramdass, of Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, was killed in a road accident behind Chandigarh police lines-26 main road on Saturday. The victim was hit by a speeding SUV (Xylo), which was going towards IT-park, Manimajra, around 8am. The victim was a barber and crossing the road to meet his one of the family friends. The SUV driver, Jaspreet Singh, of Jujhar Nagar in Mohali, has been arrested. Eyewitness reported to police that the SUV was coming from the side of Sector 26 and it was on high speed that the driver intended to apply the brakes but failed to control the SUV, which ultimately hit the pedestrian. The injured was rushed to GMSH-16 in a police vehicle but doctors declared him brought dead. Sub Inspector (SI) Malook Singh, incharge of PP BDC-26, said, "The SUV driver Jaspreet has been apprehended by the PCR personnel, who were rushed on the spot within minutes after receiving a call from police control room. The SUV was seized. Jaspreet was going to IT-park for picking someone."The body will be handed over to family members after postmortem examination on Sunday. The driver Jaspreet has been released on regular bail. A case was registered at Sector 26 police station.

  MUMBAI: Motorists travelling to Bandra Kurla Complex from the Western Express Highway (WEH) will have one more access route as the MMRDA has decided to build an elevated corridor from Vakola Junction, over Mumbai 's land in .
  
  Commuters now have to travel 3.8 km, through Pipeline Road, parallel to WEH, and bypass the government colony to reach Bharat Diamond Bourse in BKC. Another option is to take a 5km-long route via Kalanagar.
  
  
  MMRDA commissioner U P S Madan said, " has agreed to hand over a portion of its land to build the elevated corridor. This will help us construct the four-lane, 1.2km long elevated road from Bharat Diamond Bourse."
  
  
  MMRDA will also construct a 400m long and 30m wide road near the University linking BKC to SCLR. In all, the University will hand over 34,715 sq m of land.MU's vice-chancellor  said, "The TDR generated after handing over of the land to MMRDA will be sold and used for overall development of Mumbai University , which will include construction of hostels, staff quarters, guest house, science block etc in an area around 3 lakh sq m."
  
  
  "The entire corridor will be built on the boundary of our land. Only the pillars will come up on the land. In effect, there is no loss of land except the vertical space that will be used to build the viaduct," Deshmukh added.
  
  
  Madan said bids will be finalised for the project in three to four months and it will take at least two years to complete the project. Besides, MMRDA has also planned an  Highway-BKC connector and Kalangar Junction improvement project that will feature a flyover linking the BandraWorli Sealink Road.
  
  



  NASHIK: Environmentalists are once again up in arms over the attitude of the public and the civic body on hacking trees instead of the electric poles and concrete encroachments on the road.
  
  
  Their anger lies in the fact that people complain about trees on road when they meet with accidents, but nobody complains about electric poles or encroachments.
  
  
  A Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) official has said that each month they get around 100 online complaints related to the gardens department.
  
  Ruhi Sinha, a student of environmental sciences, said, that the day once a significant number of trees are lost, everyone would regret it. "Light poles and distribution point boxes are more dangerous than treesThe NMC has no sense of planning," she said.
  
  
  The civic body, however, maintains that they have taken all the necessary precautions to retain trees. "People call us saying that a particular tree was a hindrance to the traffic or their lane or it was too dangerous. As per the high court's orders we don't cut trees and instead, put reflectors on them to caution people. If they still crash into them, then it is their faulty driving. Accidents do happen even without a single tree on the road. One has to be very alert and cautious while driving," an NMC official, said.
  
  
  He added that NMC has started planting trees and has shifting those that had to be cut for the  widening.
  
  
  About the electric poles, municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna, said, "We usually conduct a drives to shift poles, when they are a hindrance. If the poles belong to the state's electricity board, we ask for a quotation from them and pay them after which they shift the poles. If the poles are installed by the NMC, we shift them ourselves. I will still check if there are any such poles and will get them shifted."
  
  
  People protest against trees but no one complains against electric poles on the road. If someone crashes against a tree there are chances that the person can survive but it is not so in most cases where they hit a pole. We are not against removing trees that are in the middle of the road. We had in fact given a memorandum to the municipal commissioner three months back to transplant a coconut tree that was in the middle of  or else we would file contempt of court. Two college students on two wheeler met hit the tree and died. It was transplanted after that but the committee appointed by the court had asked to transplant this tree 1.5 years back.
  
  
  As per the orders of the high court, cement girdles around the trees, reflectors on it and high-mast lights should be there in trees not in alignment with the row. If people cannot complain about electric poles then why are they complaining about trees? If trees are serving people since decades and are good for biodiversity then why should people complain? Trees are targeted as they are easy to cut. Trees which serve as natural dividers are cut and landscaping is done where trees are planted as dividers. High court order also says that trees aligned together should be retained as median and if trees are little away from the row, the alignment of the row should be changed. Accidents happen due to rash driving, says , environment activist
  
  
  Nobody complains when vehicles are parked by roadside outside hotels on Gangapur Road! Trees are not encroachments but we have encroached upon their place. In 2015, a human chain was formed accusing trees on Gangapur Road to be putting human life in danger. Instead of this they could have planted 2,000 trees. NMC's town planning department of the NMC is most bogus. They will not be able to show us one correct layout. Trees should be there in every layout and in reality. We are not saying that trees bang in the middle of the road should not be cut. They should be transplanted. If NMC had followed all the rules and planted and transplanted trees to be cut for road widening then no one would have gone to the court. Without planting and conserving trees NMC sought permission to cut for road widening. Strangely contract for cutting tree is given to road contractor. We doubt wood trading in this, says , environment activist
  
  
  No one complains about street lights, telephone and electric boxes, illegal religious places, concrete encroachments by big buildings and hotels. Then there are rickshaws parked haphazardly. But trees are easy targets. Whenever road is to be widened, NMC and some people want the trees to be cut before anything else. Land acquisition is the most important thing to be dealt with priority but that is kept pending till the rates escalate for years and compensation becomes heavy on NMC's treasury. Gangapur Road widening is the appropriate example. It was approved 13 years back yet land acquisition is pending but trees already faced the axe, saya Mandar Oltikar, environment activist
  
  
  Accidents are due to rash driving. Till date no environment activist or tree lover crashed against trees. Is this coincidence? People on vehicles would avoid illegal constructions on roadsides, religious structures, rickshaws, poles, parking on roadsides and not complain but would target the trees first. All illegal constructions by big builders should be demolished first and only then trees should be cut. Every day, demolition is done for smaller constructions and trees are cut. How many trees have the NMC planted and most importantly conserved? All indigenous trees are cut and harmful foreign species like Gulmohar, rain tree and the like are planted, saya , biologist
  
  



  HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) authorities on Friday ordered a probe into allegations of bogus bills filed by contractors for road repair works carried out in the city.
  
  
  Senior officials said contractors claimed about Rs 100 crore by submitting fake bills to GHMC's engineering wing over the last one month.
  
  
  Municipal commissioner B  said the civic body would constitute a team of high-level officials to investigate the allegations. "There are allegations that the contractors who were asked to lay bituminous tar (BT) roads, have submitted bills without doing the work. Our quality control wing and the vigilance department will inspect these areas and verify the allegations," said Janardhan Reddy.
  
  
  Minister for municipal administration and urban development K  had earlier said that the shabby condition of city roads was the result of corruption, and contracts should be given to reputed national and international construction companies. Echoing the ministers' statement, participants at 'National Conclave on Recent Advances in ' said the city would be better off with cement-concrete (CC) roads instead of the existing BT roads.
  
  
  "But if the GHMC had gone in for CC roads, which are low on cost and maintenance, this situation could have been avoided. The CC variety of roads last longer which saves a lot of money belonging to the public," said NYR Sampath Kumar, senior assistant secretary, Cement Manufacturers' Association (Hyderabad) at the conference.
  
  



  NAGPUR:  (NHAI) and Nagpur  Corporation Limited (NMRCL) have dropped the plans for building an underground metro stretch under Kamptee Road and have decided to go for a road tunnel instead. RITES has been appointed by NMRCL to do a feasibility study of the proposed structure.
  
  
  A source in NMRCL said that the proposed tunnel would be 3-km long and would cost over 600 crore. "It will begin from  and end near . It will be a four-lane tunnel and around 25 metre below ground level. The cost per km is around 200 crore. The exact alignment and length would be known after RITES submits its report."
  
  
  While the tunnel will be constructed by NMRCL, NHAI will bear the expense. Designing and supervision of the construction will be done jointly.
  
  
  Elaborating on the need for the tunnel, NHAI regional officer M  said that the three metro stations in the area - Kasturchand Park, Gaddigodam Square and  - would have to be built at a greater height if a two-tier flyover was built instead of the tunnel. "These stations are expected to have maximum footfalls due to their proximity to market area. If metro rail is built over the flyover then their height will be around 15 metre, which is inconvenient for passengers. However, in case a tunnel is made, the stations would be will be at a height of 5.5 metre, which is the normal height."
  
  
  Chandrashekhar further said that other options were also on the table including a shorter tunnel, some 600 metre long. "We will explore all options," he added.
  
  
  The NMRCL officer said that RITES' technical study of the project will have three steps. "The first will be geotechnical investigation. The second will be collection of borehole data and the third is strength analysis in which rock strength and recovery (continuity of rock) will be studied. On the basis of this data, we will decide at what depth the tunnel will be constructed," he further said.
  
  
  NMRCL has junked the proposal for underground metro stretch, mooted by union transport minister , as it was far costlier. "The road tunnel costs 200 crore per km whereas an underground metro costs Rs 250 crore per km. In addition to this, we would have been required to built at least two stations below the ground, which would have cost another 100 crore extra," the Metro Rail official said.
  



  TRICHY:  Road, the most congested bazaar street in  city, came under tight surveillance from Friday as police erected eight  and installed surveillance cameras at several points.
  
  
  People have been cautioned against falling prey to attention diversion tactics of miscreants.
  
  
  The heightened vigil follows heavy crowd movement along NSB Road which is dotted with all kinds of shops. The eight watch towers have been erected at Rock Fort temple junction, NSB road - Ragunath Hotel junction, Kareem Store, Main Guard Gate, Sandhu Kakai, Singarathoppu near Poompuhar showroom, Gandhi Market arch and Anjuman Bazaar junction.
  
  
  The constables will get a bird's eye view of the areas through binoculars from the towers. Unlike previous years when the police installed CCTV cameras for Diwali crowd management alone, the city police have the advantage of 26 recently-installed cameras sponsored by a private agency at Singarathoppu, Big Bazaar Street, Chinnakadai Street, Main Guard Gate and Nandhi Koil Street.
  
  
  In addition to that, police have tilted the cameras in eight commercial establishments on roadside. The live stream from the cameras was connected to a monitor at the special booth on Friday at NSB Road - Theppakulam junction. City police commissioner MN Manjunatha inaugurated the new facility on Friday.
  
  
  A speed dome camera at Teppakulam - Ragunath hotel junction has become an additional feature for the specific surveillance of the entire stretch of NSB Road, Nandhi Koil Street and Main Guard gate areas. The policemen will watch the monitor and regulate the crowd through public address systems which were also installed with the cameras recently.
  
  
  Police will alert the public against criminals and pickpockets while the public can also inform the control room about missing persons from the crowd.
  
  
  Commissioner Manjunatha said that as many as 400 police personnel had been deployed for security and about 100 police personnel for prevention of crimes. Bomb detection and disposal squads (BDDS) have been posted at seven places.
  
  
  While advising people not to fall prey to tricksters, the police said that such people were mostly new to their business and targeted women. Their modus operandi was to throw a currency note on the road and ask the women to check if it was theirs. When they bent forward to check, they would relieve them of their bags and ornaments.
  
  
  Police said special points had been marked for two-wheeler and four-wheeler parking. Two-wheelers can be parked in Teppakulam post office to Arunachalam statue on WB Road and Bishop Heber school in Teppakulam. Four- wheelers can be parked in Yanaikulam ground, Super bazaar and Bishop Heber school.
  
  
  



  THANE: A minor  broke out at  after four trucks ferrying 30 cows kicked up a storm on Friday. The cows were being  from a  shed in Gujarat and were allegedly going to be transported to a cow shed at , the police suspect. No one was injured in the incident.
  
  
  The trucks had left from Gujarat with cows. The vehicles were covered with plastic sheets so that no one could spot them transporting the bovines. However, a bystander spotted the animals in the truck. He soon alerted others, who stopped the trucks. Soon, a mob gathered and they started hurling stones at the trucks, shattering their windshields.
  
  
  Fearing further attack by the mob, the truck drivers managed to sneak away from the scene. One of the locals informed the cops who then reached the spot and took charge of the situation. When the police inspected the trucks, they found 30 cows collectively. The cops then broke the steering lock of the trucks and drove them down to the police station for further inspection. The cops suspect that the cows were being taken to be slaughtered or sold.
  
  
  No case has been registered yet. However, the police are carrying out investigations in the case and are trying to find out where the drivers had sourced the cows from. Also, they are going to check with the transport department whether the transporter had the necessary documents to transport the cows or not. They are also trying to find out as to which cow shed the cows were going to be sold to. ''We have seized the cows and the trucks but were unable to nab the drivers as they had already fled the spot before we could reach there,'' said a police official.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: To start the groundwork for the first phase of Mumbai's Coastal road project, a  of the stretch got under way on Friday. The  will be checked by drilling boreholes before the actual work begins. Officials said the investigation will be completed in around three months.
  
  
  The Coastal Road will stretch from Marine Drive near the  to  (29.22km). However, the geo technical investigation is being done from only South Mumbai to Bandra Worli Sea Link (9.98km) at a cost of Rs 8.43 crore in the first phase.
  
  
  The technical investigation is being done by M/s DBM Geo-Technics & construction Pvt Ltd.
  
  
  A civic official said, "Such investigation plays a crucial role in construction of the road. About 166 boreholes will be drilled every 100 metres to check the soil strata and at every 50 metres where a tunnel is to come up. The holes are expected to go almost 50 metres deep. The machinery required for the geo technical investigation has already been mobilized."
  
  
  The project has already got the approval of the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA), the Indian Navy, the Coast Guard and the  (MMB). However, approval of the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) is yet awaited.
  
  
  Recently, the state public works department gave its nod for shifting of tetrapods from Worli seaface to Marine Drive to the present alignment of the Mumbai Coastal Road.
  
  
  Additional municipal commissioner Dr Sanjay Mukherjee, who is in charge of the project, said, "A specialized kind of boring would be done all the way from chowpaty in South Mumbai to Bandra Worli Sea Link using a barge (a long flat-bottomed boat)."
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: Motorists travelling to Bandra Kurla Complex from the Western Express Highway (WEH) will have one more access route as the MMRDA has decided to build an  corridor from Vakola Junction, over Mumbai University's land in Kalina.
  
  
  Commuters now have to travel 3.8 km, through Pipeline , parallel to WEH, and bypass the government colony to reach Bharat Diamond Bourse in BKC. Another option is to take a 5 km-long route via Kalanagar.
  
  
  MMRDA's metropolitan commissioner U P S Madan said, "Mumbai University has agreed to hand over a portion of its land to build the elevated corridor. This will help us construct the four-lane, 1.2-km long elevated road from Bharat Diamond Bourse."
  
  
  MMRDA will also construct a 400m long and 30m wide road near the University for additional connectivity from BKC to SCLR.
  
  
  In all, the University will hand over 34,715 sq m of land. MU's vice-chancellor Sanjay Deshmukh said, "The TDR generated after handing over of the land to MMRDA will be sold and used for overall development of Mumbai University, which will include construction of hostels, staff quarters, guest house, science block etc in an area around 3 lakh sq m."
  
  
  He added the land handed over is not in use. "The entire corridor will be built on the boundary of our land. Only the pillars will come up on the land. In effect, there is no loss of land except the vertical space that will be use to build the viaduct," Deshmukh said.
  
  
  Madan said bids will be finalised for the project in three to four months and it will take at least two years to complete the project. Besides, MMRDA has also planned an Eastern Express Highway-BKC connector and Kalangar Junction improvement project that will feature a  linking the Bandra-Worli Sealink Road.
  
  
  MMRDA has also decided to extend SCLR from Kapadia Nagar on CST Road in Kurla, to Vakola on the WEH. As part of this project, an elevated road will be built from CST Road in Kalina to MTNL junction in BKC, to decongest Imam Ahmed Raza Chowk in Kapadia Nagar.
  
  
  



  BENGALURU: Officials with the  of  (BBMP) on Friday recovered public land encroached upon by  (Ward number 194).
  
  
  The builder had constructed an arch on the government road and the civic body recovered the space after demolishing the  using JCBs. Bettagowda, chief engineer, BBMP (Bommanahalli zone), said in a public statement that that people can use the road here on.
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The  has decided to go for a vigilance inquiry into the works being undertaken under second phase of Kerala State Transport Project. The PWD has suspended KSTP project director P G Suresh pending inquiry. Around five road projects will be investigated.
  
  
  In a press meet convened on Thursday, PWD Minister G Sudhakaran said that there was large scale corruption in the KSTP-II project.The discrepancies were found in the inquiry conducted by vigilance wing of PWD. Minister said that there were discrepancies in the  road,  bypass , Ramanchira bypass, Kazhakootam-Adoor safe corridor project and Chengannur-Ettumanur roads under KSTP-II.
  
  
  He also said that all the projects will be brought under scanner for a detailed probe and all the KSTP projects executed in the last three years will be probed by vigilance and anti-corruption bureau.
  
  
  Sources said that detailed project report of most of the projects are flawed causing a cost overrun. The  funded project has been facing allegations of poor supervision and unscientific preparation of DPR.
  
  
  Talking to media on Thursday, minister said that he was sending a strong message to corrupt officials by suspending a person holding the post of chief engineer.
  
  



  TRICHY: The  police have tightened  on the NSB Road ahead of Diwali. The most congested area will be under tight surveillance with the help eight watch towers and surveillance cameras.
  
  
  Heavy movement of public along the NSB Road for purchase of garments and other things for Diwali celebrations prompted the city  to intensify the vigil. Police cautioned the public criminals who would steal valuables attention diversion tricks.
  
  
  The police erected watch towers at eight places - Rock Fort Temple Junction, NSB Road - Ragunath Hotel Junction, Kareem Store, Main Guard Gate, Sandhu Kakai, Singarathoppu near Poompuhar showroom, Gandhi Market Arch and Anjuman Bazaar junction. Cops manning the watch towers are given binoculars.
  
  
  Unlike previous years when the police installed CCTV cameras for Diwali crowd management alone, the city police had lesser headache because 26 cameras were recently installed by a private agency.
  
  
  A speed dome camera at Teppakulam - Ragunath Hotel Junction has become an additional feature for the specific surveillance in the entire stretch of NSB road, Nandhi Koil Street and Main Guard gate areas.
  
  
  The policemen will watch the monitor and regulate the crowd through public address systems which were also installed with the cameras recently. The police personnel on duty will alert the public against criminals and pocket pickers. The public can inform the control room about the missing persons in the crowd.
  
  
  City police commissioner MN Manjunatha said that as many as 400 police personnel have been deployed for the security and around 100 police personnel have been engaged in prevention of crimes.
  
  
  Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) personnel have been posted in seven places in the areas.
  
  
  Two-wheelers can be parked in Teppakulam post office to Arunachalam statue on WB road and Bishop Heber School in Teppakulam. Four-wheelers can be parked on Yanaikulam ground and at Super Bazaar and Bishop Heber School.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: The  for the first phase of the Mumbai's  project was initiated on Friday. As a part of the investigation the soil strata will be checked by digging in bore holes before the actual work on the ground begins.
  
  
  The total length of the Coastal Road project beginning from  near the Princess Street flyover upto  is 29.22kms. However, the geo technical investigation from only  up to Bandra Worli Sea Link part of the project is being conducted in the first phase and the cost of the same is pegged at Rs. 8.43 crores. The length of this portion of the stretch is 9.98kms.
  
  
  The contractor for conducting the geo technical investigation is M/s DBM Geo-Technics & construction Pvt. Ltd. A civic official said, "Such kind of investigation plays a crucial role in construction of the road. About 166 bore holes will be dug at an interval of 100 metres to check the soil strata and at every 50 metres where a tunnel is to come up. The machinery required for the geo technical investigation has already been mobilized." Officials added that it would take around three months for investigation to be completed.
  
  
  The project has so far already received permissions from the MCZMA, the Indian Navy, coast guard and the Maritime Board Mumbai (MMB). However an important nod from the Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) is yet awaited.
  
  

SURAT: With Diwali approaching fast, encroachment enforcement department officials of central zone of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) removed more than 2475 bales of different textile material from the ring road market area in one of the busiest location of the city. It has become a habit of number of textile traders to pile up textile material below the flyover bridge area of ring road. This piling up takes place on both sides of flyover bridge reducing the space for vehicles to move from below the flyover bridge.On Thursday evening large number of central zone staff with the help of number of officials from Katargam and Rander zone , removed whole encroachments and even collected Rs 1.37 lakh of administrative charges as fine. In all staff of 134 people , also removed large number of three wheel tempos and other vehicles to clear the road. Large number of other material like open carts, wooden tables and other things piled up were also removed. "We have seized 2475 bales of textile material and would be taking even harsher steps if people encroachment this place which is one of the busiest place ." said an official from Central zone.PATNA: Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Friday alleged the Grand Alliance government was working on roads only in Saran and Vaishali districts associated with the 'Lalu (Prasad) family' or in the areas of RJD functionaries.  Modi said the Nitish Kumar-led government sanctioned 16 roads in the last 10 months, most of which were for the above-mentioned favoured areas. Seven roads involving a cost of Rs 582 crore are being constructed for Saran-Vaishali districts. Besides, one road each has been sanctioned for the areas of incarcerated ex-Siwan MP Mohd Shahabuddin and ex-minister Iliyas Hussain, both of the RJD, Modi added.  The construction work has either been stopped or was slow with regard to seven other projects for reasons of unavailability of land or financial crunch, Modi said and specially referred to the proposed Sattar Ghat bridge across the Gandak, Ara-Chhapra bridge, approach road of Digha-Sonepur bridge, Bihta-Sarmera road, Ara-Mohania road, Digha-Deedarganj Ganga Path and six-lane Raghopur-Bidupur bridge across the Ganga.

  NASHIK: Four years after completing the widening of Mumbai-Agra Highway, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is still awaiting action on the part of  (NMC) to relocate religious structures on either side of the service roads.
  
  
  Talking about the issue, senior officials of the NHAI said they have been following up with the NCM regarding the relocation of religious structures since 2012 so that the service roads can be widened and traffic can be streamlined.
  
  
  The service roads - between Mumbai Naka and  - are home to two dargahs and two temples. One of the dargahs is in the Mumbai Naka area, while the other is near  hospital.
  
  
  Officials said that the dargah at Mumbai Naka was not posing any problem, but a free road towards the left for vehicles coming from the  signal was necessary. "Vehicles coming from Pournima signal and want to move left need to take a sudden turn to join traffic on the service road. If the dargah is relocated, vehicles moving towards Mumbai can have sufficient space to take left and join the service road. The dargah near Wockhardt hospital also occupies a good amount of space on the service road. The Hanuman temple at Dwarka is another hindrance to a free left for vehicles coming from the ," said an official.
  
  
  He added that if the Hanuman temple was relocated, they could give a free-left to vehicle from the Nashik Road at Dwarka to move towards Mumbai. "We also have to shift the dome of the underpass along the Pune road near Dwarka. However, due to civic administration's inaction, we are unable to take up any infrastructural work," he said.
  
  



  Gurgaon: Police and other security agencies will turn the city into a fortress in the run-up to the November 1 mega event to launch Haryana's year-long  with 4,500 additional policemen being called out from other districts.
  
  
  Besides Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the chief guest at the event, and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, around a dozen chief ministers and governors from other BJP-ruled states, including Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh, are likely to attend.
  
  
  Police are leaving nothing to chance and have decided to deploy double the number of personnel for the PM's security as compared with the number of cops deployed when Modi and French President Francois Hollande visited in January to launch the interim secretariat of the International Solar Alliance.
  
  
  The police deployment will, of course, be in addition to arrangements by other central security agencies for the event. Besides the additional forces, mounted police, commandos, snipers, bomb disposal squads, dog squads, the Special Weapons and Tactics Force, the Rapid Action Force, Quick Reponse Teams and the Special Protection Group will also be deployed in Gurgaon.
  
  
  The MCG will install 300 CCTV cameras in and around Tau Devi Lal stadium for the event. Police will operate five monitoring rooms at the venue's parking lot to view the footage in real time.
  
  
  "The security forces will be deployed in the city from October 24. Heavy vehicles will not be allowed to enter the city on October 31and November 1," a senior police officer told TOI.
  
  
  The police are verifying credentials of labourers currently employed at the venue for beautification and infrastructural works such as whitewash, stage for the dignitaries and stands for the visitors.
  
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Reiterating the government's commitment to modernize the water transport services in the state, transport minister A K  told the assembly on Thursday that speed boats connecting major stations, solar-powered boat services and high-tech rescue boats will be launched soon. He said the government's focus will be on developing 'passenger-cum tourism' boat services.
  
  
  In his reply after discussions on demands for grants for the transport sector in the revised budget 2016-17, the minister added that he would take stringent measures instead of popular ones to save the  (KSRTC), which has been facing a financial crisis. The state water transport department has received administrative sanction for the purchase of rescue boats to be docked at five stations, the transport minister said.
  
  
  "We intend to begin the solar-powered boat service by next month, which can minimize the environmental impact of boat services on backwaters. Besides,  services to connect Kottayam, Kumarakom and  will also begin soon," he added.
  
  
  Saseendran also told the assembly that traffic rules were being strictly implemented by strengthening inspections making use of modern technologies to detect violators. "There has been an alarming increase in the number of road accidents, especially those involving motorbikes. Thanks to strict police action, almost 80% of the bike riders are now wearing helmets, which stood at 60% a few months ago," he pointed out.
  
  
  Earlier, joining the discussions, former transport minister K B Ganeshkumar said the KSRTC could be saved only if the employees and the unions are made aware that they would be the losers in case of a shutdown. "They shouldn't be let to rule the corporation. Instead, the minister and a capable managing director should be at the helm," he said.
  
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to appoint a  exclusively to monitor the  This is the first time that the ministry has decided to post a higher official to oversee the upkeep of , said  minister  in the assembly on Thursday.
  
  
  The department has submitted a proposal worth Rs 5,000-crore to the finance department for the maintenance of 40,000km of road network, the minister said adding that the works will start as soon as the funds are sectioned.
  
  
  The minister touched upon the issue of rampant corruption in the department in his speech and said for the last 30 years the department has been in the news for all the wrong reasons. The  government has begun the process of cleaning the corrupt system, he said.
  
  
  Action has been taken against 17 corrupt officials, including an executive engineer, in the past five months. If officials continue to indulge in corruption, strict action will be taken and even chief engineers will not be spared, said the minister.
  
  
  It has been found that only 40-50% of funds has been used up by the department while the remaining money has been diverted through corrupt practices, the minister pointed out.
  
  
  The presence of an engineer from PWD has been made mandatory when a road is being built, said the minister. Similarly, while constructing a government building it has been made mandatory that all the civil and electrical works should be done simultaneously, he added.
  
  
  



  VADODARA: The city police on Thursday released a notification banning entry of vehicles on six more roads on Saturday when Prime Minister  will be in city.
  
  
  The police had issued a notification earlier this week banning entry and parking of vehicles on major roads of the city from where the PM's cavalcade will pass. According to Thursday's notification, the roads from Baroda Automobiles near Kalaghoda Circle to Vadodara Central Jail, Bagikhana crossroads to Kuber Bhavan, Dandiya Bazaar crossroads to  crossroads, Nehru Bhavan to main gate of Laxmi Vilas Palace, Kothi crossroads to  and Hotel Surya Palace to Vadodara Central Jail will be closed.
  
  
  All these roads will be closed for entry of private vehicles from 8 am till the Prime Minister's event at  end. The police have suggested alternative routes that citizens can take on Saturday to reach their destinations.
  
  
  Differently abled persons who will be participating in the PM's program have been exempted from these road restrictions. The civic authorities even removed food carts and street vendors from the route that the PM's motorcade will pass, two days in ahead of the event. The spots where they used to operate have also been cleaned.
  
  
  



  AGARTALA: Days after ace gymnast
  
  gifted by the  because of the condition of roads in the state, the  government has prioritized repair of the main roads of the locality in which Dipa stays.
  
  
  Agartala Municipal Corporation mayor Prafullajit Sinha said the entire stretch of road in front of Dipa's house at Abhoynagar, connecting it to Agartala Government Medical College, will be refurbished so that the BMW can get space to come out of the garage. The government has earmarked Rs 78 crore for the renovation of road on a priority basis, a PWD official said.
  
  
  While appreciating the decision, Dipa said, "We never spoke of any road or lane for the BMW's movement. Along with road space and quality, service and maintenance of the car are also important issues here. We have made up our mind to give up this car."
  
  
  

 RAIPUR: Promoting the all-weather transport system, Chhattisgarh aims to lay a network of 808-km long roads at an estimated cost of Rs 2,179 crore by May 2018 with connectivity to rural roads. Chief minister Raman Singh on Thursday chaired a meeting of Chhattisgarh Roads' Development Corporation officials to discuss on various projects underway and reviewed the modernisation and computerisation of transport check posts.During the meeting, the chief minister asked officials to set a target and complete the laying of roads by May 2018. Stressing on completing connectivity of rural roads, he said that villagers should have smooth all-weather transport in the years to come. The officers gave a detailed presentation on road projects of the state. These projects include Sakri-Ganiyari-Kota which would be completed at a cost of Rs 73 crore (21.8 km), Janjgir-Pamgarh roads at a cost of Rs 64 crore, Selood-Ranitarai-Patan at a cost of Rs 118 crore (40.5 km), Karesera-Kamharia-Silhati roads at a cost of Rs 92 crore ( 39.2 km), G.E. Road-Indamara-Telkadih at a cost of Rs 56.6 crore (20 km), Chowki-Chilhati-Korchatola at a cost of Rs 58 crore (22.2. km), Dongagarh-Chichola at an investment of Rs 48.2 crore (15.3 km) Dhara-Telkadih at a cost of Rs 51.5 crore (19.4 km), Chikli-Padubatra at a cost of Rs 42 crore (15.9 km). Besides, other road projects are underway at various locations across the state.Singh ordered the inclusion of Dhamdha-Gandai-Salhetekri in Rajnandgaon district in the ongoing roads' network project. The 39-kilometer road will be laid at a cost of Rs 120 crore. He also asked the officials to prepare a blueprint of Ambikapur Ring road at the earliest. Public works development minister Rajesh Munat, chief secretary Vivek Dhand, principal secretary to chief minister Aman Kumar Singh, PWD principal secretary Amitabh Jain were among those present in the meeting. 

  
  Nagpur: With the  okaying four new bus operators for city bus service from November 15, the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation will divert town planning and estate departments'  to deposit Rs60 crore in the escrow account within three months to ensure timely payment to all operators.
  
  
  Transport committee chairman , however, failed to give details about the present income of both the departments. Borkar said new service will begin with 252 buses 237 existing and 15 ethanol-run . The new operators will also procure another 150 medium-sized and 45 minibuses. Green bus operator will eventually operate 55 ethanol-run buses.
  
  
  He said the red bus operators were expected to add 25 buses each to their fleet by November 25 while the rest are expected to be procured within next three months. Borkar said that the  had made temporary depots at three locations owned by it  16 acre plot in Bhandewadi, 8 acre plot in Wathoda and a patch on London Street.
  
  
  Besides, NMC has also decided to earmark another five acres in  for the purpose. He claimed Mahagenco too had agreed to spare a five acre patch in Koradi for a bus .
  
  
  To create permanent depots, NMC has identified five lands owned by various government departments and institutions and near  Nagar, Police Line Takli, Nazul Land behind Government ITI hostel on South Ambazari road and near Futala Chowk. It has approached the Maharashtra government asking that these lands be given to the NMC.
  

LUCKNOW : Lucknow metro team announced to start work on metro corridor from KD Singh Babu Stadium to Munshipulia from October 19 after the managing director and other officials performed Bhoomi puja on Faizabad Road in front of HAL. The Lucknow Metro Rail Corporation (LMRC) said that metro trains would be able to run on complete 23 km North-South corridor by March 2019.The stretch would comprise 8 elevated stations namely KD Singh Babu Stadium, Vishwavidyalaya, IT Chouraha, Mahanagar, Lekhraj Market, Ram Sagar Mishra Nagar, Indira Nagar and Munshipulia. LMRC has begun piling work (underground pillar) in front of HAL and said that it would take up construction of piles at three important points on Faizabad Road. LMRC MD, Kumar Keshav said, "One point of construction is in front of Hal and the other two would be decided soon depending on convenience of public."Keshav said that this stretch would not require any traffic diversion as both University and Faizabad Road have enough road-width. LMRC aims to complete the 3.5m underground corridor also by 2019. This stretch comprising 3 stations- Hazratganj, Sachivalaya and Hussainabad are already under construction. Meanwhile the company manufacturing metro coaches for Lucknow corridor- Alstom has agreed to handover first set of 4 coaches by November 23.However LMRC claimed that they have pushed the company to supply coaches a little before- by November 16 so that trials of train can take place early. The state government is planning to begin commercial operation of metro corridor from Transport Nagar to Charbagh by March 2017.

  Mumbai: A  boy was found abandoned behind a parked car in  by his . The unidentified woman had delivered the baby at Indira Gandhi Municipal  in Mira Road on October 16. It was a normal delivery. She was discharged two days ago.
  
  
  The same day, residents of Shripati Building in , who found the baby wrapped in a towel on the road outside their building, informed the police.
  
  
  The baby was initially taken to the same hospital where he was born, for a medical examination. The nursing staff there identified him. His mother had given a false name and address. Cameras at the hospital show the woman, leaving the hospital with him. The baby has been sent to a home in Dombivli and a case filed against an unknown person.
  
  



  AURANGABAD: Long-pending work of the concrete road between  and  received a much - needed push on Thursday after municipal commissioner  Bakoria visited the spot and asked the concerned contractor to avail technical assistance of experts to speed up the work.
  
  
  The construction of the 2-km long stretch is pending for the past seven to eight months after the civic body recently laid an underground drainage line passing below the road surface. Technically, the authorities should allow at least 12 month time to settle the soil before building road on the spot. However,  asked a Pune-based private firm to prepare a designed that would enable the contractor to complete the road work. The stretch is one of the major roads in the city where commuters are facing hardship. For the past few days, Raju Vaidya -  group leader in Aurangabad Municipal Corporation - has been demanding the municipal body to speed up the work.
  
  



  MUMBAI: A newborn baby boy was abandoned behind a parked car on the road in  by her mother.
  
  
  The unidentified woman had delivered the baby in the  hospital in Mira Road on October 16. It was a normal delivery. On October 18 she was discharged.
  
  
  The same day residents of Shripati Building, Poonam Nagar in  found a new born wrapped in a towel behind a car parked on the road outside their building.
  
  
  They informed the Naya Nagar police. The baby has been send to a chid care home in . A case was filed against unknown person. When the baby was taken to the civic hospital for medical examination, the nursing staff identified the baby.
  
  
  It turned out the child was born in the civic hospital on October 16. His mother had given a false name and address. The hospital CCTV shows the mother leaving the hospital with the child.
  
  



  RAIPUR: Promoting the ,  aims to lay a network of 808km long roads at an estimated cost of Rs 2,179 crore by May 2018 with connectivity to .
  
  
  Chief minister Raman Singh on Thursday chaired a meeting of Chhattisgarh Roads' Development Corporation officials to discuss on various projects underway and reviewed the modernisation and computerisation of transport check posts.
  
  
  During the meeting, the chief minister asked officials to set a target and complete the laying of roads by May 2018. Stressing on completing connectivity of rural roads, he said that villagers should have smooth all-weather transport in the years to come.
  
  
  The officers gave a detailed presentation on road projects of the state. These projects include Sakri-Ganiyari-Kota which would be completed at a cost of Rs 73 crore (21.8km), Janjgir-Pamgarh roads at a cost of Rs 64 crore, Selood-Ranitarai-Patan at a cost of Rs 118 crore (40.5km), Karesera-Kamharia-Silhati roads at a cost of Rs 92 crore ( 39.2km), G.E. Road-Indamara-Telkadih at a cost of Rs 56.6 crore (20km), Chowki-Chilhati-Korchatola at a cost of Rs 58 crore (22.2km), Dongagarh-Chichola at an investment of Rs 48.2 crore (15.3km) Dhara-Telkadih at a cost of Rs 51.5 crore (19.4km), Chikli-Padubatra at a cost of Rs 42 crore (15.9km). Besides, other road projects are underway at various locations across the state.
  
  
  Singh ordered the inclusion of  in Rajnandgaon district in the ongoing . The 39-kilometer road will be laid at a cost of Rs 120 crore. He also asked the officials to prepare a blueprint of  at the earliest.
  
  
  Public works development minister Rajesh Munat, chief secretary Vivek Dhand, principal secretary to chief minister Aman Kumar Singh, PWD principal secretary Amitabh Jain were among those present in the meeting.
  
  
  



  PATNA: Targeted by opposition on Patna high court granting  to  accused , son of suspended JUD (U) lawmaker Manorama Devi, the state government is likely to file an appeal against the judgement in Supreme Court. Ruling JD (U) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said that his party would not comment on the bail and why it was granted to Rocky but the state government will contest it. "Government is studying the order of the court and will appeal for cancellation of the bail in the ," said Neeraj on Thursday.
  
  
  Rocky was granted bail by the court of chief justice  on Wednesday. Rocky's advocate Ashish Giri said that the court granted bail as none of the witnesses even the boys in the case present with Aditya Sachdeva, on the day of murder on May 7, did not say before police during investigation that they saw the accused firing on the deceased. "We also informed the court that Rocky does not have criminal antecedent and the convinced by our argument the accused was granted bail," said Ashish. The teenage school boy was allegedly killed by Rocky for overtaking his SUV.
  
  



  GURGAON: With the objective to address  and improvise traffic situation, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India on Monday inaugurated company's  for Haryana.
  
  
  Under the initiative, the company has constructed new traffic police assistance booths which are spread over a stretch of 200kms on National Highway 1. The company also provided Haryana Police with equipped 20 units of CB Unicorn 160 motorcycles.
  
  
  Speaking on the occasion, Harbhajan Singh, senior vice-president and director General and Corporate Affairs, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India said, "Road Safety has been a priority for Honda globally. Road fatalities inflict severe emotional trauma on lakhs of families each year. An alarming number of families fall into poverty after losing their primary breadwinners to such accidents. We are committed to address the issue and make handsome contributions to the cause of road safety."
  
  
  "Road Safety is a crucial issue that need to be addressed urgently. Police Assistance booth has been a great platform for addressing this issue and reduce road fatality to zero. We hope to take it forward and take stern steps to reduce road traffic accidents in Haryana as soon as possible," said Dr. KP Singh, Director General of Police.
  
  
  The CB Unicorn 160 motorcycles provided to the police are especially equipped with sirens, public announcement system, flash lights along with high quality Honda safety Helmets & first-aid boxes. All members of the specially deputed police force have been provided special protection jackets and other safety gear. These police personnel will act as post guards and have been professionally trained to handle panic and emergency situations caused during accidents.
  
  
  In June, 2016,  signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Haryana Police with the objective of reducing road accidents and address road safety issues in the state.
  
  



  PATNA: The Bihar government is likely to appeal against the bail granted by the Patna High Court to , accused in the Gaya road rage case, in the .
  
  
  Rocky, son of suspended JD(U) lawmaker  and history sheeter Bindi Yadav, is accused of shooting dead Class XII student  for overtaking his car on May 7 this year.
  
  
  Ruling JD (U) spokesman  said that his party would not comment on the bail. "Government is studying the order of the court and will appeal for cancellation of the bail in the Supreme Court," Neeraj said on Thursday.
  
  
  Principal additional advocate general Lalit Kishore told PTI, "The state government is going to file an appeal in the Supreme Court challenging the bail granted to Rocky Yadav by the Patna High Court."
  
  
  Asked when the appeal is expected to be filed in the apex court, Kishore said, "We are trying our best to file it by next Monday." He, however, refused to divulge details about the grounds on which the state government would go in for the appeal.
  
  
  Rocky was granted bail by the court of Chief Justice Iqbal Ahmed Ansari on Wednesday. Rocky's advocate Ashish Giri said that the court granted bail as none of the witnesses told police during investigation that they saw the accused firing on the deceased Aditya Sachdeva.
  
  
  "We also informed the court that Rocky does not have a criminal antecedent and convinced by our argument the accused was granted bail," said Ashish.
  
  
  Rocky's parents, accused of sheltering him while he was on the run after the murder, were recently enlarged on bail.
  
  
  
  
  

 Patna: Land acquisition issues continue to stall construction of approach roads on either side of Digha-Sonepur rail-cum-road bridge.  Despite deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadavs promise that everything will be ready by December, vehicular movement on the rail-cum-road bridge is unlikely to commence before July next year as land acquisition for construction of approach roads at Sonepur-end is acting as a stumbling block. Senior officials said only 25% of the required land at Sonepur-end has been acquired till date.  The construction work on the rail-cum-road project started in 2002 and is already delayed by nine years as the project was scheduled to be completed in 2007.  Though both road and rail decks of the bridge were made ready last year and movement of passenger trains also commenced from February this year, vehicular movement on the road deck has still not commenced owing to delay in construction of approach roads on either side.  In adherence to common practices in construction of rail-cum-road bridges, ministry of railways has constructed the bridge and the state government is required to construct the approach roads for the road deck on either side.  Last year, the road construction department had divided the work of construction of approach roads between Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL) and Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL). The BSRDCL has been assigned the responsibility of constructing the 12-km approach road on the south, that is Patna side and BRPNN has been asked to construct the 5-km approach road on northern side, that is Sonepur.  Senior officials in road construction department said approach road at Sonepur-end is stuck over land acquisition issues and majority of the required land at the Patna-end is owned by the government. Around 300 acres of land is required for the approach road on either side for which funds to the tune of Rs 326 crore has also been sanctioned.  We have been handed over only 25% of the required land at Sonepur-end and we have started the work on the acquired land. However, there are some issues related to acquisition of the remaining land. In any case, we have targeted to make the approach road ready by July next year, said a senior BRPNNL official.  Construction of approach road at Patna-end is expected to be completed by the end of this year. We are not facing any hassles related to acquisition of land as majority of the required land is government-owned. While work is already underway for construction of the approach road, NHAI is also completing the work related to development of four spans of the bridge that connect to the approach road. The work would be completed by the end of December so that vehicular movement can commence from Patna-end from January, said Arun Kumar of BSRDCL.  Meanwhile, vehicular movement between north and south Bihar across Ganga is set to be majorly affected from January as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) would commence the much-awaited overhauling of Mahatma Gandhi Setu. Only one-way movement would be allowed on the entire stretch of 5.575km-long bridge during the rehabilitation work which will take 42 months.

  BHOPAL: Two youth died in a road  on VIP Road here, on Tuesday night.  said the two-wheeler which they were riding had probably collided with the central verge on the road due to high speed that led to the accident. A case was later registered at Koh-e-Fiza police station.
  
  
  Police said deceased have been identified as Saurabh Bharti, 20, and Sonu Maratha, 19. Both were residents of Om Nagar near Birla Mandir.
  
  
  Saurabh's father had given him a new scooter on Dussehra. Saurabh was at home when Sonu, who runs a Chinese food stall, came and the duo left on the scooter that did not even have a registration number.
  
  
  The accident took place on VIP Road near Gandhi Nagar side, after which both became unconscious. Police rushed them to hospital where doctors declared them dead.
  
  
  Sonu was the only son of his father, who works in a hotel. His mother has died in the past. Saurabh had quit studies. His father is retired from a power discom firm. Police said it is being investigated to find out where they were heading at night. Whether they were drunk or not will be known in the autopsy report, they said.
  
  
  

 Kolhapur: Over 1 lakh passengers, including students, using Kolhapur Municipal Transport (KMT) buses are in for a tough time owing to the indefinite strike called by KMT workers' union from Wednesday midnight. The strike has been called over the delay in implementation of the sixth pay commission. Over 800 KMT workers are demanding implementation of the sixth pay commission. However, municipal commissioner P Siva Sankar, who is also the manager of the KMT, has refused the implementation as it will add a burden of over Rs 35 lakh on the transport undertaking which is already running into losses.According to KMT officials, buses will be off the road for indefinite period for the first time in the last 12 years. Nishikant Sarnaik, head of the union, said, "The demand is pending since the last 10 years. The workers are not getting salaries on time and the share towards our provident fund is not paid regularly. We have discussed all the issues with KMT manager, but he refused to accept the demand to implement sixth pay commission despite presenting the fact that most of the urban transport undertakings in the state have hiked the salaries."The KMT pays Rs1.54 crore towards salaries of its employees every month. The officials claim that the additional burden due to sixth pay commission will be disastrous as the transport undertaking faces Rs 3 lakh as losses every day. The union, however, claimed that the losses are not due to the salaries, but due to mismanagement by the administration.Sanjay Bhosale, deputy manager of the KMT, said, "We have given a letter to the union stating that the students will face hardships as the exams are going on and Diwali is around. Therefore, the strike should not happen. We have accepted all other demands of the union and have asked them to be patient while we are resolving the issue of payment of salaries on the basis of sixth pay commission."The KMT officials also tried to arrange a meeting between union leader and mayor Ashwini Ramane. But, the meeting could not take place as leaders of the union refused to talk to anyone other than Sankar.

  Ghaziabad: A  being constructed on  to enable the smooth flow of vehicular  from Ghaziabad towards Mohan Nagar and Delhi is expected to be thrown open to the public by January 2017. Its construction began in 2014.
  
  
  According to Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) officials, the project should be completed by January, as they are only waiting for a no-objection certificate from the forest department to complete the last leg of construction of the grade separating flyover.
  
  
  Officials said the application sent to the forest department pertains to clearance regarding uprooting of some trees which fall under the category of protected forests within the project area.
  
  
  The requisite compensatory work will be undertaken in lieu of the clearance provided by the forest department. The flyover branches off from GT Road near Mahamaya Stadium and merges into the same road in front of Sai Mandir near Sai Upvan.
  
  
  The project was conceived by the GDA to avoid jams at the Meerut Road T-point after the under-construction New Link Road connecting NH-24 with NH-58 is opened to vehicular traffic. GDA officials claim that the Link Road will be opened to traffic by November, after the construction of a railway overbridge  which is a part of the road  is completed. "The flyover will ensure the smooth flow of traffic at the point where the New Link Road intersects GT Road. Vehicles travelling from Ghaziabad and other parts of the old city can take the grade separator to avoid this stretch. The grade separator will allow one-way traffic movement from Ghaziabad towards Delhi. It will take at least two months to complete the project after we receive the no-objection certificate from the forest department," GDA chief engineer A K Gupta told TOI.
  
  
  



  SINGUR: The stretch along NH-II where MP and chief minister 's nephew Abhishek Banerjee's vehicle met with an accident on Tuesday , has witnessed at least 11 more crashes in the past seven days.
  
  
  Reason: the stretch has virtually turned into a crash zone, thanks to poor planning by the state administration and police who have cordoned off half the road to dump debris of concrete chunks, mixed with iron rods, bricks, dust and rubbish, while the other flank is being used by trucks and earthmovers dumping the rubble. The heavy goods vehicles are removing debris from the abandoned  factory premises so that chief minister Mamata Banerjee can hand over land to villagers on Thursday .
  
  
  "While a portion of the road has been made out-of-bounds for traffic, the other portion is being used by debrisladen trucks, most of them plying in the opposite direction of the general traffic. As a result, the stretch has beco me dangerously narrow. At night, it gets even more dangerous as the trucks seldom use headlights," said Goutam Halder who lives nearby. BDO Suman Chakraborty said two of his engineers,  and Shyamal Jana, recently fell victim to the unplanned debris dumping as the Am bassador they were travelling in was hit by a truck plying in the wrong lane around 10.30pm last Sunday .
  
  
  A day after Banerjee's accident, the scene on the ground, however, changed as the police removed the barricaded portion. But trucks continued to take illegal turns through Wednesday , with TOI spotting several trucks and payloaders from the factory site, headed for Burdwan and Kolkata, along the wrong lane. The drivers claimed that was "a short cut". "Towards Burdwan, the nearest turn is over 3km away . But if we take the wrong flank, we have to cover only 500m," said a driver. Hardly any cop could be seen and the few posted outside the factory gate remained mute spectators.
  
  
  When TOI contacted a police officer, he claimed he was not aware of the violation. "I will take action," he promised, though the scene remained unchanged for at least three more hours.
  
  



  HYDERABAD: At a time when denizens are putting up with abysmal road conditions, contractors working for the  (GHMC) have threatened to go on strike over non-payment of dues.
  
  
  The contractors' association claims that the civic body has failed to pay them a whopping Rs 40 crore for road work carried out by the civic body.
  
  
  Speaking to TOI, Hanumanth Sagar, general secretary, GHMC contractors' association said, "We have been asked by the GHMC to take up pothole filling work and road repair work, but since October 2, the GHMC has stopped paying us our dues. Pending work will be put on hold until our dues are cleared."
  
  
  For their part, officials from the civic body blame the lack of funds in the GHMC's kitty for the mounting dues.
  
  
  "We know that there is a shortfall in the GHMC's treasury, but that is the case with all the civic bodies in the city. No municipality in the country is a revenue surplus one," said , additional commissioner (revenue), in the civic body's defence.
  
  
  However, corporators of the civic body dispute this argument. They allege that the GHMC had a revenue surplus till last December, but finances started dwindling after the elections. "Till December last year, the GHMC had a Rs 371 crore surplus. But halfway through the financial year, the GHMC has fallen short by Rs 572 crore. Under these circumstances it is extremely difficult for any civic body to take up any civic work and ensure proper execution," said , MIM corporator from Mehdipatnam.
  
  
  While it claimed it collected Rs 1,050 crore in property tax in the last fiscal, most of the money has gone towards payment of enhanced salaries and basic works, say officials.
  
  
  It was expected that the GHMC would get grants from the central and state governments to the tune of Rs 3,100 crore, but this has not happened. Furthermore, the GHMC has also been asked to support the TSRTC financially by providing Rs 330 crore to it and it has been asked to give 15 per cent of the property tax collected to the water board as well.
  
  
  



  The residents of  and those residing around National Power Training Institute (NPTI) are dealing with pothole-ridden main thoroughfares apart from poor internal roads. Sanitation issues due to irregular lifting of garbage and stray dog and cattle menace are only making things worse.
  
  
  "Uneven, crater-ridden roads ridicule the civic body's tall claims of providing a smooth ride in this part of the city," said Vinod Sharma, a resident of Subhash Nagar.
  
  
  After failing to catch the attention of civic officials, a group of residents approached the TOI. On a visit to Subhash Nagar, TOI found that not only the North Ambazari road stretch, internal roads in localities like Subhash Nagar, Gayatri Nagar, Kamgar Colony, Lokhande Nagar, Tukdoji Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Pathan Layout and  are all in bad shape.
  
  
  The  fixed all potholes before the Ganpati festival but ignored internal lanes, said another resident .
  
  
  As most of the internal lanes are very narrow, vehicular breakdowns are a regular feature here, leading to major snarls along many stretches.
  
  
  Residents have not taken kindly to the pockmarked roads and the bumpy rides. According to them, the NMC had not laid internal roads for over two decades. They also complained of irregular sweeping of internal lanes.
  
  
  Several commuters said they had a harrowing time negotiating the city roads. Entrepreneurs and visitors to the IT Park complain of administrative neglect in providing basic infrastructure.
  
  
  "Though NMC has repaired the South Ambazari road, all the internal roads are in a poor state. Investors are reluctant to visit our firms, and, in the process, we suffer losses. This speaks about the unhealthy infrastructure for business," said one of the entrepreneurs from IT Park.
  
  
  A group of children also brought to notice the condition of the three playgrounds in this part of the city. Stray dog and cattle menace render these public spaces out of bounds. TOI found empty liquor bottles in these grounds indicating that it hosts anti-social elements at nights.
  
  
  Another major problem is that of illegal eateries. "Flouting all rules, roadside eateries encroach upon the footpaths. As they run till late into the night, footpaths remain blocked for hours and pedestrians are forced to walk on carriageway risking their lives.," said Sanjay Kawre, a local resident.
  
  
  Waste from these eating joints has also increased stray dog menace. "Due to regular dumping of waste and garbage, the stray dog menace here is one of the worst in the city. In this year alone, there have been 20 cases of dog bites. Kamgar Nagar witnessed most of the cases," said Vishal Sontakke a resident of Kamgar Colony.
  
  
  Congress corporator Prerna Kapse assured to look into the civic issues. She said that internal lanes would be relaid soon.
  



  Thane: To make an airtight case against the  fake call centres that were cheating guillable US citizens, Thane police have sent the  recovered from the seized computers to the forensic science laboratory to decode the data and working of the over Rs 500-crore scam.
  
  
  On October 4, police raided three call centres in Mira Road, seized over 500 hard disks, arrested 70 people and issued notices to over 630 employees. Police claimed the employees would pose as US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) officers, threaten US citizens with arrest for tax default and persuade them to make online payments. Later,  were also raided in Ahmedabad.
  
  
  The lab will retrieve all data that was written, or even deleted, from the hard disks in the form of mirror images which will help reveal many "hidden secrets of the dark trade", said a police officer. "Besides parallel probes, the mirror images will help nail the accused," he added.
  
  
  A crime branch team is also looking for the missing equipment from the two fake centres run by Jagdish Kanani, mentor of the alleged kingpin Sagar Thakkar alias Shaggy (23), in Malad and Borivli. Kanani had shut them down after the October 4 raids. Probe revealed that Kanani's firm was called I-serve Pvt Ltd, while Thakkar's call centre was called I-serve BPO.
  
  
  A senior police officer said though the investigation will be carried out by Thane police, information will be shared with the , IRS as well as US Homeland Security. He added that IRS and Homeland Security officials are expected to reach Thane in a couple of days.
  
  
  Even central government agencies are closely monitoring the case as more centres are reportedly operating in others parts of the country, said a source.
  
  
  Meanwhile, advocate Shishir Hiray, who is handling the Rs 2,000-crore drug bust, is likely to be appointed as special public prosecutor in the fake call centre case.
  
  



  Thane: To make an airtight case against the  fake call centres that were cheating guillable US citizens, Thane police have sent the  recovered from the seized computers to the forensic science laboratory to decode the data and working of the over Rs 500-crore scam.
  
  
  On October 4, police raided three call centres in Mira Road, seized over 500 hard disks, arrested 70 people and issued notices to over 630 employees. Police claimed the employees would pose as US Internal Revenue Service (IRS) officers, threaten US citizens with arrest for tax default and persuade them to make online payments. Later,  were also raided in Ahmedabad.
  
  
  The lab will retrieve all data that was written, or even deleted, from the hard disks in the form of mirror images which will help reveal many "hidden secrets of the dark trade", said a police officer. "Besides parallel probes, the mirror images will help nail the accused," he added.
  
  
  A crime branch team is also looking for the missing equipment from the two fake centres run by Jagdish Kanani, mentor of the alleged kingpin Sagar Thakkar alias Shaggy (23), in Malad and Borivli. Kanani had shut them down after the October 4 raids. Probe revealed that Kanani's firm was called I-serve Pvt Ltd, while Thakkar's call centre was called I-serve BPO.
  
  
  A senior police officer said though the investigation will be carried out by Thane police, information will be shared with the , IRS as well as US Homeland Security. He added that IRS and Homeland Security officials are expected to reach Thane in a couple of days.
  
  
  Even central government agencies are closely monitoring the case as more centres are reportedly operating in others parts of the country, said a source.
  
  
  Meanwhile, advocate Shishir Hiray, who is handling the Rs 2,000-crore drug bust, is likely to be appointed as special public prosecutor in the fake call centre case.
  
  



  Eighteen-year-old Prajot  was killed in a hit-and-run near MOIL Guest house on  road on Wednesday morning. The engineering student, who witness say was wearing a helmet, was riding towards Seminary hills from Chaoni along with his friend . Kumbhare is undergoing medical treatment for minor injuries.
  
  
  Sadar police have registered an offence of hit-and-run against the driver, following a complaint by 19-year-old Abhijeet Jangum who was also travelling with the duo on another bike. Police said that auto-rickshaw drivers, with the help of Kumbhare and other passers-by, rushed Chande to a nearby hospital but doctors declared him brought dead.
  
  
  Chande, a resident of Belly shop quarters in  at Pachpaoli, left his home early morning. Midway, he met Jangum and Kumbhare who are residents of Pachpaoli.
  
  
  "The four-wheeler was parked on the side of the road. While the motorcyclists were passing Katol road, the four-wheeler's driver who was sitting inside the vehicle suddenly speeded up to take a U-turn," said Nitin Gopalani, lawyer, who watched the mishap from his residence's balcony. "The rashly-driven vehicle rammed into the bike which led to the rider's upper body getting trapped in the vehicle's bumper. Passers-by raised an alarm prompting auto-rickshaw drivers to rush to the spot," said Gopalani's maid.
  
  
  "As Chande was trapped in the vehicle along with his helmet, the driver was unable to flee the spot. He then reversed his vehicle, dragging Chande a short distance. Due to the movement, Chande was dislodged from the bumper. The driver then made a narrow escape from the spot," said one of the witnesses. While witnesses told TOI that Chande had worn a helmet, the police have denied the claim.
  
  
  Chande was lying in a pool of blood, with his shoulders dislocated and his leg broken, said sources. Students passing by helped rickshaw drivers take Chande to a hospital. His friend Shubham Kumbhare, too, managed to get and helped rush Chande to the hospital. The police was summoned by locals later.
  
  
  Witnesses were quick to note the vehicle's registration number which helped the police identify the culprit. "We have sent a squad to nab him," said API R J Patil.
  
  
  Chande lived with his brother and mother, who works for the railway on compensatory basis as his father  has passed away a few years ago.
  



  LUCKNOW: "Indians should not attempt to blindly follow a transportation system that is foreign to their cultural ethos as it may or may not work for them," opined , president of  in the United States (US), while interacting with students and faculty members of  (LU) on Wednesday. Hall will next be travelling to Allahabad to study the street patterns for its development into a .
  
  
  In a session "Context based mobility for Smart cities," organised jointly by LU and the US Embassy, Hall while giving a presentation on how smart cities should be envisioned and developed, said that cities should be planned in such a way with intermingling on different economic groups that cultural isolation is minimal.
  
  
  He compared the merits and demerits of the  of developing roadways. He also chalked the changes in the town planning wrought in by the invention and development of cars, by Benz and Ford. He explained how the merits of cars and automobiles for the owner turned to be the bane for the commuters.
  
  
  Chairing the session, Prof Manoj Dixit, Head of the Public Administration department of LU said, "India is not a mere corporeal entity but it defines and contributes to a person's personality and identity and thus there are heterogeneous issues which hamper land inquisition." He also added that India enjoys a very dubious reputation as the country of maximum road accidents and these issues need to be addressed.
  
  



  GURGAON: The  and incomplete repairing work has made life difficult for vehicles owners of sector 9A of Gurgaon even as all the complaints to authorities to apprise them of problems faced by them falling on deaf ears.
  
  
  Work to re-carpet roads in the area was started five months ago. Roads were dug up for the project and stone ballast was laid. However, soon after this, the contractor left mid-way and the roads have been lying damaged since then.
  
  
  "The contractor had laid stand and stone for re-carpeting work, but soon he left the work, later during monsoon  washed away. Now only stones are left, which has turned into nightmare for drivers," said said Jyoti Parkash, resident of sector 9A adding that number of accidents has increased in last few months as there are only stones and often drivers lost control. He said resident have complaint to almost every official in engineering wing of  but the problem remained unsolved.
  
  
  "Senior citizens, women and children suffer because of the , dust and stones," said Parkash, adding that damaged road has also led to increase in air pollution due to the dust on the roads. Many people particularly senior citizens and children have developed health related problem due to heavy dust in the area.
  
  
  Residents claimed to have official of Huda and MCG both nothing substantial has been done to resolve the issue. MCG official assuring to complete the work stressed that contract for the road was given by Huda five months ago. "Huda can only force contract to start the work take some action," said MCG official.
  
  
  Meanwhile, Sanjeev Singla, estate officer I, Gurgaon, when asked about the issue, said that the authority will ensure the work is completed by the contractor. "I have not received this complaint but as this matter has been brought in my knowledge I assure the work will be completed. We will ask the contractor to complete the work as per the norms," Singla said.
  
  



  INDORE: It is still not clear how beneficial the summit would turn out to be for ,  and the state government but the resident of the city have already started feeling the difference as the condition of roads and pavements that had been in a bad condition from a long time has suddenly improved to a great extent.
  
  
  IMC is not leaving any stone unturned to make the city look beautiful. Roads of areas near  have been repaired, all the patches have been filled and pavements that usually looked dirty are shinning in red color. Cattle have suddenly vanished from the area.
  
  
  "We had made sure that there is no encroachment on the road. While we run our anti encroachment drives on regular basis, we have become stricter this time," said IMC's deputy commissioner MS Chouhan.
  
  



  
  DHANBAD:  police has decided to adopt steps to keep a check on rampant road accidents and unprecedented rise in cases related to women atrocities.
  
  
  Apart from improving traffic in township and highway areas, police have been directed to visit educational institutions and other organisations to spread awareness among masses, especially among youngsters.
  
  
  "After a series of marathon meetings with our senior authorities, we initially decided to concentrate on checking rampant road accidents and unprecedented rise in cases related to women atrocities, especially in the rural pockets of the district," said SP Akhilesh B .
  
  
  The SP added concerned police officials of all 13 police stations were directed to execute the plan and act accordingly.
  
  
  "As majority of fatalities occur among youngsters, our focus is to check irregular and rash driving, especially by juveniles. Apart from deploying a police team at sensitive points, concerned police officials will visit educational institutions to spread awareness," Variar added.
  
  
  "Besides, we will constitute women's committee, comprising of social workers, intellectual women and concerned police officials in all 13 police stations of the district, to deal with women related issues in areas of their respective jurisdictions. Our aim is to reach out to women even in the vulnerable pockets," Variar said.
  
  
  "While 240 cases related to women atrocities, including dowry death, rape and others, have been lodged in the last nine months in different police stations of the district, at least 183 road accidents from January to September this year took place in highways and other areas", said DSP Jitbahan Orawn.
  
  



  SURAT: Driving past the road from Sardar Bridge to  in  with your car doors swung open or on the motorcycle, residents are greeted with a pleasant smell of a stock. As one moves a little further, the atmosphere shifts distinctly and you come to realise it was much to do with the perfume as you witness the scented flowering plants and trees along the road.
  
  
  It seems you are in a world of fragrance. It is not the only road where you are greeted with fragrance. The Diamond City has many 'scented or fragrance roads' where the night-scented plants release their perfume after dark.
  
  
  Thanks to the garden department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), which has embarked on the mission to provide a pleasantly scented night ride to the residents and those walking along the road for a night stroll on the 'scented roads'.
  
  
  Night-scented plants release their perfume in an effort to attract nocturnal insects.
  
  
  The city has many road stretches where the garden department has experimented to provide surreal experience to the motorists and pedestrians with the scented plants and trees. Visit any of the BRTS bus-stations, the stretch at Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) on Udhna-Magdalla, Honey Park Road, Anand Mahal Road, etc, and you will be greeted with fragrance after the dark.
  
  
  A mithai shop owner on Choksi Wadi Road, Sagar Halvawala told TOI, "The scented trees are planted in the distance of the road. One tree called Gul Mehndi is right next to our shop. The fragrance is so surreal, that you forget all your depression at the end of the day. The entire stretch is filled with fragrance after dusk."
  
  
  There are night-scented plant species, including Dayking, Lumaria, Tecoma Capensis, Gul Mehndi, Night  or Raat Rani, Spider Lilly, etc., that have been planted along the roads for the fragrance.
  
  
  Talking with TOI, garden superintendent of SMC, S J Gautam said, "These are all night-scented trees and their flower emanates fragrance after dark. We have chosen few road stretches in the city, mostly in Adajan to provide 'scented' feeling to the commuters and pedestrians. The fragrance is soothing and pleasant."
  
  
  According to Gautam, the civic body is developing 'fragrance garden' on 5,000 square meter land at Dabholi in Katargam. It will have distinctive aromatic and fragrant plants.
  
  
  "Fragrance garden will serve as an ultimate picnic spot for the residents in the city. For the morning and evening joggers, it will be a surreal experience of walking with fragrance," said Gautam.
  
  
  



  
  BENGALURU: Bengaluru's traffic snarls are notorious, and it has many pain points, which need more attention than the stretch between  and Hebbal, where the proposed steel flyover will come up.
  
  
  Silk Board Junction, KR Puram, Marathahalli-Bellandur stretch, Mysuru Road, Okalipuram are a few junctions that citizens dread to traverse daily. And there is not a single day when these roads offer motorists smooth sailing.
  
  
  According to the last traffic density study, Silk Board Junction records the heaviest traffic at all times during the day. The average Passenger Car Unit (PCU), a measure of traffic density, was 20,000 at Silk Board Junction - 5,000 more than what the BDA estimated at 15,838 in morning peak-hour traffic at Basaveshwara Circle.
  
  
  KR Puram records a PCU of 5,000 per hour, says a BBMP projects engineer.
  
  
  "Although Mysuru Road records 8,000 PCU per hour during peak hour, it is congested due to unscientific road widening. At places, footpaths are wide and at some places, they don't exist. Points where footpaths exist and get wide choke with traffic," admits a BBMP officer who was part of road and traffic planning. Okalipuram in west Bengaluru records 6,500 PCU per hour during peak hour.
  
  
  All these traffic studies were done between 2010 and 2012, which was the last time the study was done. Sources say it was done for a few select junctions and roads where major projects like the Metro were planned. MN Sreehari, a transportation expert says, "Silk Board to Marathahalli sees the highest vehicle density in the city, followed by KR Puram, because these two junctions lead to tech corridors like Electronics City, Whitefield and all along Outer Ring Road from Silk Board Junction to Mahadevapura. Hebbal was recently added to the list of bottlenecks but the figures the government presents to strengthen its case for the steel flyover are blown up." BDA claims it to be 19,157 PCU during morning peak hour.
  
  
  And that's not all. Bengaluru Traffic Police statistics claim traffic volume to road capacity ratio on Nrupathunga Road is highest at 3:62, followed by KG Road at 2:5, Lalbagh  is the third most congested road (2:67). MG Road comes seventh with volume to capacity ratio of 2:26.  does not even feature in the list of top 10 congested roads, as per traffic police.
  
  
  PROJECTS IN LIMBO
  
  
  While the government was quick to work on the detailed project report of the steel flyover, it also announced various other projects to decongest many such bottlenecks, which have not yet yielded results. Okalipuram Junction in west Bengaluru, for one, has been earmarked for a massive eight-lane, multi-directional flyover planned six years ago, which kicked off in January this year. Only a few pillars and spans have been built so far, and the flyover is set to be completed in two years. Cost has already escalated from Rs 115 crore to Rs 220 crore.
  
  
  CM Siddaramaiah announced a flyover to be constructed from Jayanagar East End to Silk Board, which is not being hurried up. BMRCL also planned to link RV Road to Bommasandra via Jayadeva Circle, Silk Board and Electronics City. At Jayadeva Circle, Metro authorities will have the second interchange station which is going to be multi-level and is said to be designed to include the new flyover.
  
  
  Jayadeva Circle already has a flyover and an underpass for vehicles. However, there is no DPR on the second flyover the CM announced in the budget speech when he announced the steel flyover.
  
  
  The CM directed BDA to construct another lane for Hebbal flyover to ease traffic flow from the airport side towards the city. He announced the widening of the flyover before BBMP elections in 2015. Work began a week ago, and is estimated to cost Rs80 crore.
  
  
  
  



  HYDERABAD: At a time when the  (GHMC) claims it is undertaking road repairs on a war footing, residents from various part of the city complain that hastily-laid gravel and stone chips are coming off and the roads have been reduced to a big dust bowl.
  
  
  Residents claim that driving on the roads has become a nightmarish experience. "The condition of the roads in the city are horrible. There are cities like Mumbai where the quantum of rainfall is much higher than what the city has received. Despite being lashed by the rains, those roads survive the onslaught," said MBR Sastry, a resident of Khairatabad. Sastry has to travel towards  every day for work.
  
  
  Heavy rains triggered by two depressions destroyed city roads and also exposed how inferior quality materials are sourced to prepare roads in Hyderabad.
  
  
  "The road along Lakdikapul, Ayodhya Hotel and  is terrible. I presume that even remote villages have better roads. The GHMC seems to be using the rains as an excuse, to keep away from doing their work," said , a resident of Shalivahan Nagar.
  
  
  According to officials from the civic body, some of the places where the work was expedited include Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Madhapur, Minister's Road, Punjagutta, Yousufguda and parts of Secunderabad.
  
  
  Quashing the GHMC's claim of better roads, witnesses said how in Malkajgiri, which witnesses movement of lakhs of motorists everyday, the thoroughfare has been cut into half. "One lane of the road is fi lled with ditches, potholes and loose soil," said , a resident.
  
  
  When contacted, offi cials of GHMC's engineering wing claimed that the repairs have been taken up in a phased manner and would be completed soon.
  
  
  The GHMC also claimed helplessness when it came to roads where the metro rail was coming up. "There is noth-ing we can do there as Metro work requires lot of digging," added an official.
  
  



  HYDERABAD: Those forced to regularly commute on the city's crater-filled roads for their living may be prone to higher instances of hypertension, finds a latest study.
  
  
  Done by a team of doctors from city-based Institute of , Endocrinology and Adiposity (IDEA), the study showed 22% of RTC employees working at Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB) bus depot are hypertensive.
  
  
  In the study presented at the  conference held during , the team of doctors found drivers outnumbering conductors in their hypertension (BP more than 140/90) levels.
  
  
  "The takeaway from the study was the fact that those regularly travelling on the city's congested and pothole fi lled roads whether they are RTC employees or other motorists, could be prone to hypertension over a course of time, leading to several adverse consequences," said Dr Shyam Kalavalapalli, director, IDEA, the study's main author.
  
  
  Motorists commuting on waterlogged and badly-damaged stretches of roads every day experience stress build-up during rush hours, leading to hypertension in course of time.
  
  
  "What's more, hypertension does not surface alone as in most cases, it is found to co-exist with diabetes without even one's knowledge," he added.
  
  
  In fact, Hyderabadi men are already known to top national charts when it comes to having 'very high' level of hypertensive population as per Union health ministry's National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-16).
  
  
  The NFHS-4 - which had a larger sample size of 766 households - found that 4.6% men from the city had 'very high' level of hypertension with BP reading more than 180/110. This was way ahead than 3% men in Chennai, 0.5% men in Kolkata/Patna, 0.1% men in Goa and 0.7% men in Bengaluru.
  
  
  Similarly, the percentage of moderately high level of hypertensive (BP reading between 160-179/100-109) men in Hyderabad was pegged at 3.4% and the percentage of slightly above normal hypertension (BP reading between 140-159/ 90-99) at 16.1% respectively.
  
  
  "During regular check up with patients who have recently experienced increased BP, they often blame the traffic and roads as a contributing cause," recalled Dr Shiva Raju, senior physician and head of medicine department.
  
  
  Not surprisingly, experts link stress with hypertension, partly blaming travelling on bad roads for long time as one of the reasons.
  
  
  "While transient increase in hypertension is normal for a person, the problem arises with uncontrolled hypertension as it can result in brain stroke, heart failure, kidney damage and heart attacks," said Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu, consultant physician at  in Hyderguda.
  
  



  PUNE: Confusion among various agencies involved in road restoration works in Pune Cantonment have left the residents and commuters fuming.
  
  
  The charge of roads in the cantonment area is divided among three agencies, including the  (PCB), Military Engineering Services (MES) and the  (PWD). Digging charges need to be paid to the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) and restoration of roads depend either on the agency dispensing the work, or the custodians of the roads, but no one seems to be able to arrive at a consensus regarding which agency is responsible for the restoration.
  
  
  While most of the road-length is held by the PCB (around 48km), around 22km of road are under the custody of the MES, and about 5km - the length of Solapur Road/Shankarsheth Road - is held by the state PWD. Any permission to dig up the streets to lay utilities, however, must be sought only from the PCB and all charges must also be paid to the board, the rates of which were roughly doubled last year.
  
  
  The duty to restore roads after the laying of utilities is often left uncertain as the agencies often fail to agree on which one of the three should carry out restoration works, and cover expenses.
  
  
  This situation has caused multiple roads in various parts of Camp to remain in poor conditions. Plans to restore some of these roads are still being drawn up, some of which were dug up many months or even a year ago.
  
  
  "Some of the roads, in the Cantonment area are in a pathetic condition. I remember them being dug up for things like laying cables and water pipes, but only a few of those roads have been restored. Even the quality of the restoration work is not satisfactory. There has been little levelling of roads. And the condition of some roads like the Solapur Road has been terrible for a long time," said MM Syed, an MG Road resident.
  
  
  Plans have also been hindered by a poor response from contractors to tenders. The PCB said it has a Rs 1.5-crore plan to restore road cuttings and widen them, but it only received a single response to phased tenders that the board had floated. Ultimately, it had to be accepted, as it was deemed by the authorities to be within feasible rates.
  
  
  Board officials, though, claim that multiple agencies "never" get in the way of road restorations. "There is a board of officers from the MES, the garrison engineers, and the PCB to decide of road restorations are repairs. All expenses and plans are coordinated. For other agencies, like the  (PMC), which is carrying out digging at the , they are asked to make a financial commitment to restore the road", said an official from PCB's engineering department.
  
  



  Gurgaon: Around a month after stalling the construction work on the , residents of  village have finally relented and allowed the civic authorities to resume the project. The move came after the MCG acceded to the villagers' demand to build a stormwater drain along the cement road, which is being constructed.
  
  
  A group of villagers led by the local councillor had opposed the work and forced the MCG to stall the construction on the road in September.The villagers alleged that the cement road would block the flow of rainwater during monsoon in the absence of a stormwater drain.
  
  
  However, soon after senior MCG officials intervened and spoke to the village elders, they allowed the civic authorities to resume the work. The protest by the villagers had often led to huge snarls on the road."We gave them a patient hearing and agreed to their demand to construct a stormwater drain along the road, which will be linked to a bigger drain near the Sector 22-23 crossing. The construction work has now resumed, and we are not expecting troubles anymore. We should be able to complete the work in next 10-15 days," a senior MCG official said.
  
  
  The local councillor said they would not stall the construction work again. "All our demands have been met, and we hope that the drain would help solve our concerns. We have asked the authorities to ensure that the height of the cement road is not raised further," , outgoing councillor from Dundahera, said.
  
  
  However, commuters are worried about the additional time the authorities would be taking to complete the construction work.
  
  
  "This road is in a mess right now. Had these villagers had not intervened, the constriction work would have got over by now. The road is uneven at many places. During night the visibility is so low owing to the dust that flies around. The authorities need to fix the problem immediately," , a regular commuter, said.
  
  



  
  Panaji: Tibetan protesters, who landed in Goa alongside world leaders during the recently-concluded  summit, shared their experience on Tuesday.
  
  
  National director of the  (SFT),  revealed that different teams worked in different directions to successfully raise the issue of annexation of the Tibetan plateau by the People's .
  
  
  "On October 13, four of my friends arrived and the first action we took was throwing ink on all the posters of the Chinese near the airport as we hold them directly responsible for the human right atrocities being committed in Tibet right now," Tselha said, adding that the group also protested at the airport right after the Chinese leaders departed from there for the summit.
  
  
  "We also conveyed our message through parasailing at Calangute-Baga area with the Tibetan freedom flag and message."
  
  
  Poet, writer and a prominent leader of the 'Free Tibet' movement,  was kept in a three-day police custody following his protest in front of the motorcade that was carrying Russian president .
  
  
  "I stayed hiding in a marsh near the venue of the summit for over 20 hours. The police was looking for me even before I had entered Goa. I used to sleep on the roads during the day when the cops were on a lookout for me, and during the night, I used to make my move towards the venue. I hope that, even jokingly, if president Putin had mentioned about my protest to , my job is done," Tsundue, who has been fighting for the cause for the past 23 years, said.
  



  Panaji: The incorporation of slag in road construction is likely to receive a boost, with the  (GSPCB) directing the public works department (PWD) to identify roads in the state that it can be used on.
  
  
  Slag is a processed waste produced by induction furnace and sponge iron units in Goa and can be suitably used as a base layer in road construction or embankments.  officials had used char waste successfully in a pilot project at Santona, Costi in Sanguem for road construction. Despite heavy traffic over it, the road showed only negligible damage after four years.
  
  
  Many nations, specially the US, have been using it for a century, sources said.
  
  
  "We have asked the PWD to identify stretches on which slag can be utilized as the base layer," GSPCB member secretary, , said.
  
  
  The board has also sought information from various sponge iron units and induction furnace units in the state about the waste material available with them. The dumping of slag had been turning into a huge problem in some industrial estates, specially Cuncolim, and space used to deposit it in was fast becoming insufficient.
  
  
  While slag is used in limited quantities to make bricks in Goa, many countries have reported its widespread use for decades, even innovating contemporary applications in recent times. Unfortunately, although Goa has such material in abundance, greenery is being stripped and hills destroyed to extract mud for land-filling and reclamation.
  
  
  GSPCB officials asserted that the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has certified that slag can be used for road works. "It is an inert material, as certified by . The PWD can, therefore, use it to fill road embankments as per technical specifications," Martins said.
  
  
  But, an environmental activist said that agencies should take precautions in its use as a filling material. "They should not neglect exercising precaution to prevent it running off into water bodies," the activist said.
  



  Trichy: A speeding lorry rammed a police van at  in  on Tuesday leaving nine policemen attached to armed reserve (AR) police of Pudukkottai and the lorry driver injured.
  
  
  The van carrying as many as 30 policemen from AR police force in Pudukkottai to  met with the accident at Muthudaiyanpatti. The police force was assigned for security at Keeranur in connection with the rail roko agitation of farmers against the Centre's stand on .
  
  
  According to eyewitnesses, the accident happened when a Taurus lorry coming from behind attempted to overtake the police van. The driver of the lorry had to take a sudden swerve to the left to avoid hitting a lorry coming from the opposite direction. His attempt to save his vehicle led to a strong hit on the right body of the police van.
  
  
  The high-impact hit caused damage to the police van injuring nine policemen, Sivasankaran, 32, Jayakumar, 43, Syed , 26, Raja, 31, Ramamoorthy, 27, Gunasekaran, 27, Karuppiah, 29, Dhanasekaran, 26, Pandiyaraj, 28, and the lorry driver , 27 from Chengalpat.
  
  
  The injured policemen and the driver were rushed to Pudukkottai government hospital where they were admitted for treatment. TNN
  
  



  LUDHIANA: In a tragic accident which took place near Sareenh village on Dehlon Road,Ludhiana, 5 members of a family died when after their swift Dzire car went out of control and collided with a bus on the opposite side of the road. The deceased have been identified as businessman Parveen Gupta, his wife Jyoti,daughters Riya,Shipra and son Krishan. Gupta was resident of Surinder Nagar near  and owner of R.K Gupta hosiery.
  
  
  According to the eye witnesses the accident occurred at around 8.30 p.m today and the speeding car was coming towards Ludhiana from Sangrur and when a dog came in front of the car, Gupta in an effort to save the dog lost control over the vehicle and it landed in the opposite lane after breaking the divider where it met with a head on collision with a PRTC bus which was going from Ludhiana to Sangrur. Witnesses also informed that two persons died on the spot,while others got badly stuck inside the car after the collision and a crane had to be used to make space for them to be taken out of the badly damaged vehicle.
  
  
  According to Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar,SHO of police station Dehlon, "we have taken the bus into our possession and also registered case against bus driver ,who along with
  
  conductor of the bus managed to flee from the spot. The hunt is on for both of them and we will be getting postmortem of dead bodies conducted on Wednesday"
  
  



  Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected four petitions by about 150 shopkeepers and caretaker of a mosque situated on the road, who had opposed the proposed widening of .
  
  
  The petitioners challenged Maharashtra government's notification of November 12, 2014, under MRTP Act, 1966, that allowed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to widen the road from 15 to 24 metres, with a view to reduce congestion, which meant razing parts of shops and the mosque. The notification carried out minor modification in city's development plan by widening the existing 15 metres road passing from Central Avenue, Badkas Chowk, Kotwali Police Station Chowk to CP and , to 24 metres.
  
  
  "We are of the considered view that petitioners have failed to bring the case within any of the parameters on which the challenge to legislative functions would be permissible," a division bench comprising Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice  ruled.
  
  
  The petitioners prayed for extension of interim protection for six weeks as they wanted to approach the . The panel's notification indicated the minor modification is granted subject to the condition that the heritage structures of Murlidhar temple, Kelibag temple, a grave and Gujar gateway would be kept intact while widening the said road as per the plan width.
  
  
  "In view of that, we find the contention of the petitioners that the heritage structures were being affected by expansion without any substance," the court held.
  

 Meerut: Friends of Ujjwal Perswal, the 21-year-old Amity student who died in a car accident in Noida on Friday, paid a unique homage to the departed boy by distributing cards with photographs clicked by him that pleaded with people to take precautions while driving on the road.  Bravely leading a candlelight vigil on Tuesday in the heart of the city, Nitin Goel could barely hold back his tears as he addressed a massive gathering of the deceaseds family and friends.  His loss is too much for us to bear. He was fun loving and always the life of any group he walked into. His keen interest in photography was how we bonded, and he made sure he left no stone unturned to hone skills. He never gave up, said Goel, who was Ujjwals instructor at Exposure School of Photography.  Taking a cue from Ujjwals passion for keeping memories stored as photographs, Goel on Tuesday distributed postcards to everyone who crossed the vigil. The postcards were all unique in their own way. Each one had a photograph that Ujjwal had clicked, and with it a plea for everyone to be safe and vigilant while driving.  The pictures clicked by him are a grim reminder of what we lost. A budding photographer and a beautiful human being. We dont know what lead to the accident that killed him, but the postcards with his photographs are what we have to spread the message of road safety. Nobody should have to go throguh this pain, said Gaurav Sisodia, one of Ujjwals close friends who was part of the vigil. The gathering included people who were part of Ujjwals life including those he met during his weekend trysts with his camera.  Making sure his work reaches a larger audience and also sends out a strong message is the best farewell that we could have given him. As much as we miss him, I hope hes smiling from above, added Goel.  Police officials in the city also appreciated the groups initiative.  Its a unique way of sending out a message. Ujjwal will stay alive through these photographs, and will keep reminding people on various aspects of road safety, said SP Traffic, Kiren Yadav.  A late-night trip to Murthal for food turned tragic for a group of BTech students of Amity University after their SUV rammed a brick-laden tractor-trolley on NH-1 on early Saturday morning. Three students, including Ujjwal, were killed and seven others were injured. Police said they had to use gas cutters to extract the victims and survivors from the badly scrunched-up SUV.  The impact was such that half of the car went under the trolley while it overturned. A pile of bricks fell on the front of the car. Police found tyre marks stretching for nearly 20 metres that suggested that brakes were hit hard. Those killed were identified as Shikhar (22), Ujjwal (21) and Rajesh (24); those injured were Subham (21), Pranav Pandey (20), Vijay (20), Shubham (24), Reefat (21), Vanshika (20) and Pooja Mishra (21).

  NAVI MUMBAI: Around 280  operating in the  areas went on a day-long strike on Monday to protest the poor condition of the road connecting to the popular hill station of Matheran. As a result, several visitors and also the locals were left stranded and were seen either seeking lifts from other private vehicles or walking uphill on their own.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Santosh Shelke, the leader of the Neral-Matheran Taxi Drivers' Union, told TOI: ``We had no option but to resort to this strike in order to get the district authorities to repair the 10 km stretch from Neral to Matheran. There are cracks and  at several spots en route, and it is also very dangerous for us as well as the tourists who come here.''
  
  
  He added that at the hill slope gradient, the vehicles sometimes are not able to properly grip the road, which had also resulted in serious mishaps in the past.
  
  While the Raigad district officials assured the striking taxi drivers on Monday that efforts are on to repair the road, the cab drivers said that they will see how soon the road gets repaired; otherwise they will resort to a bigger agitation in the near future.
  
  
  Some of the local leaders from Karjat, Neral and Matheran also reached the spot where the taxi drivers were protesting in order to address the issue. There was adequate police bandobast in order to maintain law and order at the site.
  
  
  
  



  KOLKATA: Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamool MP and nephew of Bengal CM  was seriously injured when the car in which he was travelling turned turtle at  on NH2 on Tuesday afternoon.Banerjee was returning from Berhampore. He sustained head injury and was rushed to Belle Vuehospital. Manas Bhuniya MLA who was also in the car was also injured. He too had been hospitalised. They had gone to  to attend a party meeting at Berhampore.
  
  
  Police sources said that Banerjee was in a convoy of five cars and the convoy's first Scorpio was hit by a truck coming from the opposite direction and it was badly damaged. For that Mamata Banerjee expressed surprise how the truck can enter the convoy's route. There was an obstruction in the road as a break down milk van was being towed by another car. The police men in the convoy were also heavily injured. Mamata Banerjee had directed a probe as there had been repeated incidents of accident in Abhishek's convoy. Banerjee is an MP from Harbour.
  
  The Kolkata bound road along NH2 had been closed to traffic. Police are now trying to rescue the cars which faced the accident. DM of Hooghly and senior officers had visited the spot.
  
  



  DEHRADUN: In wake of the recent road mishaps involving heavy vehicles in the state capital, the Regional Transport Officer and police department have decided to initiate stringent measures to check the menace. While the RTO intends to launch a special drive against the errant vehicles, the cops wants to fix time for the movement of heavy vehicles on the outskirts of the city areas.
  
  
  Five persons have been crushed to death within last five days in separate mishaps involving rashly driven dumpers. On October 17, a couple died after a dumper hit their two-wheeler on the  by-pass route. A couple died in  area after being hit by a dumper on October 14. A woman died while her husband was injured after their vehicle was hit by a dumper. Similar accidents have been witnessed in the past too.
  
  
  Arvind Pandey, Assistant Regional Transport Officer (ARTO) Enforcement of Dehradun, told TOI, "During the drive, out focus would on heavy vehicles like trucks and dumpers. From now, we would be seizing the vehicle instead of just issuing a challan in case a driver is found indulging in rash driving or driving without valid license."
  
  
  Significantly, drive would be conducted such areas of the city where the movement of heavy vehicles is maximum throughout the day like Shimla-Bypass, Haridwar Road and Haridwar-bypass.
  
  
  Since the start of current financial year till 30 September, the Dehradun enforcement officials of  challaned 1747 heavy vehicles in last six months for flouting different rules. Of this, 139 challans were issued for overloading and 103 heavy vehicles were penalized for indulging in reckless driving.
  
  
  "In some cases, we have also found that driver of a truck or dumber put his helper behind the wheel who is not an expert and even doesn't have valid license. In such cases, strict action will be taken against the vehicle, driver and the owner of the vehicle." said ARTO Enforcement.
  
  
  This year (from January 1 to September 30), 93 people have died in 208 accidents in Dehradun. Besides, 147 others injured were injured in these road mishaps. "We have decided to fix the time for movement of heavy vehicles and dumpers on different stretches, including Shimla by-pass route. Our teams will also identify the major cause behind the mishaps and look for solution," SSP Sadanand Date said.
  
  



  PUNE: A ten year road map has been prepared by the state agriculture department by which concerted efforts will be made to double the earnings of , according to agriculture commissioner . The commissioner was speaking at a state level workshop organised by the  in Baramati. Among others who were present included cooperatives commissioner , and agriculture weather expert Dr Ramchandra Sable.
  
  
  Deshmukh said that in the next three years, sugarcane crop will be brought under drip irrigation. Other features include food storage management, focus on horticulture, seeds management, taking multiple crops, soil health management, more use of modern machinery, and better crop management. The measures will be implemented strictly so that farmers will be able to double the earnings of farmers. Last year, the state government had implemented a plan to optimise water storage by building one lakh artificial ponds. Some sections are saying that farmers should not take sugarcane crop. The agriculture department is bringing three lakh hectares under sugarcane crop. Farmers should try for increasing production in minimum farm land, and should also try for drip irrigation, considering water shortage. There is an increasing trend that sugar factories are falling sick. There are 843 farmers production companies in the state, the highest in the country, officials said.
  
  



  COIMBATORE: Underground  projects, wherever undertaken, have always irked residents. This particular locality on Kannusamy  near D B Road in R S Puram is no exception. However, residents, who are pro-development, complain not about the work but about the unplanned procedures taken up by the corporation engineers.
  
  
  Nandeep V J, a content writer, said, "They could have at least informed us that they were planning to dig the road. When I returned in the evening after my work, it took me over an hour to take out my  as the entire road was dug up and it was a mess," he said.
  
  
  He added that the least they could do was put up signboards. "When we enter the road, we think we can make it to the other end. Only after crossing 50m that we realise that the roads are dug up. If signboards are set up about the work in progress, this traffic congestion can be easily avoided," he said.
  
  
  Maheshwari, another resident, said the contractors and civic body should plan the projects in such a way that residents are informed and the roads are leveled immediately after work is completed.
  
  
  V Manish Kumar, an owner of an export company, said he happened to see the labourers digging up the road. "I immediately removed my car from my home and parked it in my friend's place. Else, I would have been able to commute till the work is over. Also, the entire mud that was dug out has been dumped in front of our gates. If it rains, we won't be able to take out our two-wheelers too. No one informs us anything," he said.
  
  
  Thiyagarajan, a junior engineer in charge of the project, said the underground drainage work on the road was started a week ago. "Since excess water through drainage pipelines is being let out from residences and apartments, the work is getting delayed. We will complete the project soon," he said.
  
  
  



  INDORE:  (IDA) has planned to construct a new road to connect  road in  with Super Corridor in scheme 155. "We would start the work after GIS. Surveys have been conducted and if there will be a mutual consent among the people on giving land, the work would be completed on time," said  chairman .
  
  
  Officials said that the width of the road will be 100 feet. However, the present available land with the authority is only 40 feet. A lot of people will be displaced from area to acquire land for the construction.
  
  
  According to sources, the department will have to remove more than 40 constructions from the area. While the cost of construction of road would be around Rs 32 crore, the authority would have to pay a huge amount as compensation to the people, who will be displaced.
  
  
  Sources also claimed that the authority had planned to construct the road three years ago. But, it could not start the work in want of budget to pay compensation. This year it has sufficient budget.It would be a tough task for the officials since they are already facing a lot of problems in construction of Chandan Nagar Ring road. The displaced people have alleged that they are not being paid adequate compensation. The IDA has claimed that displaced people will be given compensation according to the rules. People living in scheme 155 will be directly benefited by the development. Also, Super Corridor will get directly connected to area near Kila Maidan.
  
  

DHANBAD: A 25-year-old pregnant woman was forced to give birth outside Giridih Sadar hospital, after being denied prescribed tests in the pathological lab late on Sunday evening. The victim and her relatives have now accused hospital authorities for gross mismanagement in the hospital. Mamta Devi (25), a resident of Taratand, alleged that she was denied admission in private hospitals as well, when they learnt she had no money.The incident came to light after social worker, Ramesh Yadav and CPI (ML) activist Rajesh Sinha found Mamta delivering her baby along the main road, near Bangla school at Makatpur chowk. The duo took her to Giridih Sadar hospital and urged authorities concerned to admit her.While district collector Umashankar Singh could not be contacted, sub-divisional magistrate Namita Kumari said she was not aware about the incident. "I am not aware about the incident as nobody had complained to us in this regard. If it is true, we will talk to the civil surgeon and will act accordingly", she said."There may be certain issues that forced the pregnant woman to leave the hospital premises all of a sudden, but she was scared of a possible surgery as she had already undergone a similar operation during her first delivery. As such, the doctor simply advised her mandatory tests before going for further procedure," District malaria officer Dr Kamleshwar Prasad, who is also in-charge of civil surgeon, said, adding all prescribed tests were available in the hospital lab but the lab was closed being a Sunday."This is a big question that despite availability of a SRL unit and a well maintained pathological lab within the hospital premises, the patient had to go outside to conduct the tests. We have asked the authorities concerned to enquire into the matter and submit a report as soon as possible", Prasad said."Neither did she allow us to examine her nor did she follow our advice. Soon after we asked her about possible operation and advised almost 10-12 mandatory tests, she along with her husband left the hospital without giving proper information to the concerned authorities", Dr Sanjana Sharma, who attended the patient in Sadar hospital said, adding the condition of both the mother and the infant was stable."This is gross negligence by the hospital management. All are blaming each other. The most important point is that nobody is here to speak about how and why the woman left the hospital just for normal tests despite her severe labour pain", said CPI (ML) activist, Rajesh Sinha."None of the hospitals listened to her genuine pleas, whether these tests were available in the hospital or not. We had to move to a private hospital where we were asked a sum of Rs 35,000 in a Makatpur based nursing home. My wife gave birth to a male child beside the road", said husband Ajay Ram.

  Kanpur: Schoolgirls of 39 school and colleges took to roads, on Monday, to protest against rising incidents of rape and the hardships victims have to face to get rapists behind bars.
  
  
  The students took out a rally from their colleges and made chains in front of their schools.
  
  
  Principal of Ma Kasturba Inter College, Chandraprabha, said, "Justice delayed is  denied due to shortage of judicial officers and vacant courts. Cases often stretch upto ten or more years. Due to delay in justice, a victim losses her respect and are often forced to compromise." The schoolgirls demanded that all rape cases should be tried in fast track courts and total time at district court, high court and Apex court should not be more than 365 days.
  
  
  Chief convener of programme, , called on to the citizens to join the campaign and force the government to devise more stringent laws to protect women.
  
  
  



  Ghaziabad: The district planning committee on Monday unanimously approved a budget of Rs 185.14 crore for Ghaziabad's development in the financial year 2016-17. The committee had met on Monday at the district collectorate under the chairmanship of cabinet minister .
  
  
  The lion's share of the budget has been allocated for various infrastructure works and social welfare schemes.
  
  
  A sum of Rs 72.40 crore, which is over 39% of the total budget, has been allocated for construction, maintenance and repair of tar roads. This amount will be made available to the district by the public welfare department of Ghaziabad. Another sum of Rs 5.50 crore has been earmarked for construction of cement-concrete roads and drains which will be made available through the  department of the state.
  
  
  Various social welfare schemes for widows, old age persons and students, have been allocated Rs 51.14 crore.
  
  
  Similarly, a sum of Rs 22.68 crore has been allocated for improvement of health services, while Rs 8.92 crore has been earmarked for education.
  
  
  
  
  
  Members of the planning committee include the district magistrate, the chief development officer, president of the district panchayat, local MLAs and the  MP of Ghaziabad among others. The meeting was finally held on Monday after several postponements owing to non-availability of different members of the planning committee.
  
  
  "The budget was prepared after wide consultations amongst various stakeholders at the grassroot level in the district," chief development officer of Ghaziabad, Krishn Karunesh, told . "The total sum that has been approved for this financial year will be released by 53 different departments of the state government," Karunesh added.
  
  
  In the financial year 2015-16, the committee had approved a budget of Rs 180 crore which was used for various development works in the district
  
  



  HYDERABAD: Warning people and departments concerned of strict action over water stagnation on city roads, the  (GHMC) on Monday said that it would issue notices to those responsible for the problem.
  
  
  Speaking at a review meeting with engineering officials of the civic body , GHMC commissioner  , said that if any commercial establishment was found responsible for stagnant water on roads, its trade licence would be cancelled.
  
  
  The commissioner also asked the officials to coordinate with police officials and utilise  camera footage to book offenders who were pumping water on roads, encroaching footpaths, road dividers and asked them to obtain all information to curb such nuisance.
  
  
  He also instructed chief engineer C , to create awareness about road repair work and to arrange display boards at the work sites. These boards would have information about the status of the work.
  
  



  BENGALURU: The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation (BMRC) has said that a metro link between  and Kempegowda International Airport along  is not feasible.
  
  
  "It'll not be possible to dig again around MG Road or build a station above the existing Cubbon Park undergound metro station. We can't close the underground station for 5 years because the line is operational already. The MG Road station already links metro's east and west corridors. It's not in the scheme of things planned to have more stations from MG Road or Cubbon Park," BMRC MD  told TOI.
  
  
  Huge plots will be needed for a terminal station at MG Road or Cubbon Park, which isn't feasible,  added.
  
  
  BMRC sources, however, pointed out that Phase 2 can be extended to the airport. The Gottigere and Nagawara line, part of Phase II, passing through MG Road with an underground station at Brigade Road can be extended further to link the airport, they added.Five of the nine routes proposed by the BMRC link Nagawara to airport.
  
  
  "We are trying to understand the people's logic on the route they think is feasible to link airport. We will conduct our own tests on the routes most voted for before reaching a decision," Kharola said.
  
  



  THONDEBHAVI (CHIKKABALLAPUR DISTRICT): The last time Thondebhavi came under the spotlight was almost a year ago when a cloud of ash from a nearby cement plant enveloped it. Now, this nondescript village is grabbing headlines for becoming the first in the country to have a self-repairing road.
  
  Thondebhavi, 65km from Bengaluru and with a population of about 1,200 people, has a 700-metre road with a crack healing capability. This road is the brainchild of Prof Nemkumar Banthia of the civil engineering department at the University of British Columbia, Canada.
  
  
  This will be a game-changer in road-building, especially in a country where roads are dotted with cracks and potholes. M  of the National Institute of Engineering-Mysuru, who coordinated with Thondebhavi village authorities and University of British Columbia, said: "This road has been built with high strength concrete supplemented with fibres which have a hydrophilic nano-coating. This coating absorbs water. Since most road cracks develop because of unhydrated cement, the hydrophilic coat ing produces silicates that closes the cracks."
  
  
  The lifespan of these roads is 15-20 years. The road, about 100 mm thick and comparatively less than the usual cement road, would go a long way in reducing road-laying cost. Since fly ash is used for these roads, the carbon output is low.
  
  
  The 700-metre stretch, which connects the village with the road to nearby  town, has enthused residents. , a resident and also president of Kolar Chikkaballapur Districts Co-operative Milk Union Ltd (KOMUL), said: "Earlier, people used to have a tough time on the slushy road. This stretch has come as a boon to villagers and they can transport their agricultural commodities to various places without any hassles."
  
  
  Jyothi Reddy, president, Thondebhavi gram panchayat, said the road has been of great help to people of the village. She said she'll convince nearby cement factory authorities to take up many more roads in the village panchayat. Aswathachar, manager, Pragathi Krishna Gramina Bank, Thondebavi branch said the quality and finish of the road is fine and it's expected to last longer compared to the normal cement one.
  
  



  Chennai: The city  is staring at its largest deficiency of funds yet, but is loathe to pull the plug on the main drain on its resources - .
  
  
  Last month, a Comptroller and Auditor General report tabled in the state assembly pointed out that  spent over 100 crore in 2014-15 to run the canteens and netted an income of only 37 crore. In the same fiscal, the corporation's deficit increased by 55% to 471 crore, with Amma Canteens contributing nearly 14% to the total.
  
  
  Officials cite the operation and maintenance of Amma Canteens as a prominent reason for the coffers drying up. The cash deficit situation has led to a scenario where the corporation is struggling to settle bills for contractors engaged for road and building projects. Contractors who took up road re-laying, pavement construction and even construction of Amma Canteens have not been paid. "We can put off road works if we don't have funds for it, but we cannot stop the functioning of Amma Canteens under any circumstances," said an official.
  
  
  With the number of canteens having increased to 407, there are now at least two canteens per ward in the city. "Each zone would have incurred a debt of at least 20-30 lakh from running these canteens," said an official.
  
  
  Mounting debt is also due to high procurement costs. The corporation purchases commercial LPG cylinders, which are priced at over 1,000 each, to fuel the kitchens. Each canteen uses at least half a dozen LPG cylinders a week. Similarly, a high price is paid for procuring raw materials needed for food preparation, as pointed out in the CAG report. Though 107 new canteens were opened last month, not one has been ensured a supply chain for vegetables. Local sanitary officials said they manage by sharing vegetables among canteens or purchasing out of their pockets, for which they will be refunded later.
  
  
  "The headquarters allots 4 lakh per month to operate one canteen. But this is never enough to meet the expenses," said an official.
  
  



  HYDERABAD: Four  and a 65-year-old  lost their lives, while another person suffered injuries in separate road accidents on the outskirts of the city since Sunday night.
  
  
  In the first incident, a 21-year-old B Com student, K Naveen from Maruti Veedhi in Monda Market of Secunderabad, lost his life and his friend Vijay suffered injuries when the bike they were travelling on rammed into a parked truck at Turkapally in Shamirpet on Monday evening.
  
  
  The truck was parked on the road side. The condition of the road was good and there was no road turn where the accident occurred. "Naveen, who was riding the bike, died on the spot and the pillion rider is in a critical condition," Shamirpet inspector A Sattaiah said.
  
  
  In another incident, 30-year-old software engineer, Srinivas of Gajularamaram, died when he got crushed under rear wheels of a DCM van at  on Monday morning. "The DCM van hit the bike of the victim from the rear. He was wearing a helmet, but the head got crushed under the van's tyres," Dundigal sub-inspector (SI) M Pavan told TOI.
  
  
  Two persons died in another  at Bachupally on Saturday night. The deceased were identified as Ajay and Krishna, both 19-year-old students from Hafeezpet. The mishap occurred when the victims were going to Hafeezpet from Bachupally on a bike. "Due to speeding, the bike hit the divider and the victims fell on the other side of the road. They were overrun by a car," Dundigal SI Pavan said.
  
  
  Meanwhile, a 65-year-old watchman, K Ramachandraiah, died when he was hit by a bike while crossing the road at Batasingaram in Hayathnagar on Monday evening.
  
  
  



  Work on the two much-awaited flyovers and a railway overbridge (ROB) of the city will begin soon. The bhoomipuja of the new flyover on Wardha Road from  to  and Hotel Pride will be held on October 23. The tenders for Khapri and Sadar flyovers will be opened on November 15 and their construction will begin in December.
  
  
  Meanwhile, (NMRCL) which is constructing the new flyover on Wardha Road, will start razing the existing  flyover in first week of November. Earlier, it was slated to do it this month. A NMRCL spokesperson said the delay was because agency did not want to inconvenience people during  festival.
  
  
  The three km long flyover, only second of its type in the country will carry road traffic as well as metro trains. It will begin from Ajni Square and end just before Hotel Pride. "It will cost about 425 crore or about Rs 120 crore per km. The Manish Nagar spur will cost another 65 crore.  has promised to pay us 414 crore but we will charge them in proportion to actual expenditure," the spokesperson told TOI.
  
  
  The four lane flyover will be 22 metre high (about seven storeys). The metro track will be at this height while the road will be at a height of 12 metres (about four storeys).
  



  Two people were killed and six injured when two buses collided on the Madurai - Rameswaram highway on Monday morning. The bus bound to Kanyakumari from Rameswaram collided with another bus proceeding to Rameswaram from Madurai at  when Kanyakumari-bound bus driver tried to avoid hitting two people on a two-wheeler. Selvam from Sivaganga and  from Virudhunagar died on the spot while six other passengers in the bus suffered injuries.  police have registered a case.
  
  
  Fisherman found dead: A fisherman from Visakhapatnam working in a deep sea fishing vessel was found dead under mysterious circumstances as his body was floating in the sea. Gitappal Samy, 41 preferred to stay in the boat after the deep sea fishing vessel was moored in Muttom fishing harbour on October 10. When the boat owner returned to the vessel on October 14, Samy was missing though all his belongings were intact in the boat. On Monday, the decomposed body was found floating in Muttom harbour area. The body was recovered by the Colachel Marine police and sent for postmortem.
  
  
  Farmer attempts suicide: Frustrated over lack of action by the police department over his complaint, a farmer attempted to immolate himself at the Dindigul collector's office on Monday.  from  had come for the public grievance redressal day at the collectorate and doused himself with kerosene suddenly. Police rushed to his aid and poured water on him. It was revealed that some people are trying to grab Gnanasekar's two acres of farm land. He had preferred a police complaint at Reddiarchathiram station but no action has been taken.
  
  



  Salem: More than 5,000 cadres of several political parties including the DMK, Congress, MDMK, VCK, CPI, CPI(M) and  and members from various farmers' associations were arrested for staging a road and rail roko across Salem region on Monday. They staged demonstrations urging the Central government to constitute the Cauvery Management Board for the welfare of 's delta districts at the earliest.
  
  
  In  (Salem city), more than 1,000 DMK cadres led by Salem central district , Panamarathupatti R Rajendran, gathered to stage the rail roko. They raised slogans against the Union government. Later, the police arrested 500 cadres and lodged them at marriage halls.
  
  
  Similarly, more than 200 cadres of People's Welfare Front (PWF), which includes MDMK, VCK, CPI and CPM, gathered at the Salem Junction and tried to stage a rail roko. They were also arrested and lodged in marriage halls.
  
  
  More than 500 DMK cadres led by MLAs Thadangam Subramani and Inbasekaran tried to stage a rail roko at the Dharmapuri railway station. They were also arrested.
  
  
  In Namakkal district, cadres from Namakkal, Rasipuram, Tiruchengode and Paramathi Velur staged a rail roko at their respective railway stations.
  
  
  At Namakkal railway station, more than 600 cadres of DMK and other political parties tried to stage a rail roko. But police prevented them. Later, they staged a dharna in front of the railway junction. Following this, the police arrested 310 protesters from DMK and a few cadres of PWF.
  
  
  In Hosur, Krishnagiri district, 100 cadres of DMK led by MLA Y Prakash were arrested for trying to stage a rail roko. Similarly, more than 1500 cadres were arrested in Erode district when they attempted to lay siege to the Erode railway junction.
  
  



  Salem: More than 5,000 cadres of several political parties including the DMK, Congress, MDMK, VCK, CPI, CPI(M) and  and members from various farmers' associations were arrested for staging a road and rail roko across Salem region on Monday. They staged demonstrations urging the Central government to constitute the Cauvery Management Board for the welfare of 's delta districts at the earliest.
  
  
  In  (Salem city), more than 1,000 DMK cadres led by Salem central district , Panamarathupatti R Rajendran, gathered to stage the rail roko. They raised slogans against the Union government. Later, the police arrested 500 cadres and lodged them at marriage halls.
  
  
  Similarly, more than 200 cadres of People's Welfare Front (PWF), which includes MDMK, VCK, CPI and CPM, gathered at the Salem Junction and tried to stage a rail roko. They were also arrested and lodged in marriage halls.
  
  
  More than 500 DMK cadres led by MLAs Thadangam Subramani and Inbasekaran tried to stage a rail roko at the Dharmapuri railway station. They were also arrested.
  
  
  In Namakkal district, cadres from Namakkal, Rasipuram, Tiruchengode and Paramathi Velur staged a rail roko at their respective railway stations.
  
  
  At Namakkal railway station, more than 600 cadres of DMK and other political parties tried to stage a rail roko. But police prevented them. Later, they staged a dharna in front of the railway junction. Following this, the police arrested 310 protesters from DMK and a few cadres of PWF.
  
  
  In Hosur, Krishnagiri district, 100 cadres of DMK led by MLA Y Prakash were arrested for trying to stage a rail roko. Similarly, more than 1500 cadres were arrested in Erode district when they attempted to lay siege to the Erode railway junction.
  
  



  PATNA: A four-lane road with cycle track around Gandhi Maidan and an underground parking facility for 400 vehicles there, besides building multistoreyed shopping complexes in New Market area and solar panels on government buildings are parts of the preliminary concept plan for developing Patna as a smart city. The plan was presented before Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor on Monday.
  
  
  Patna and six other state capitals have been given a 'wild card' entry or a second chance to participate in PM 's ambitious Smart Cities Mission.
  
  
  Senior Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said March 20-25 next year is the deadline by Union urban development ministry for submitting the final proposal, including the detailed project report for development of Patna under the Smart Cities Mission.
  
  
  "Earlier, we thought the final proposal had to be submitted by November-end as no specific deadline was set for Round III under the mission. We received a letter from the Centre a few days back about the March deadline for submission of the proposal. Accordingly, various issues were deliberated and fresh deadlines were set for several components under the proposal," said a senior PMC official.
  
  
  The Smart Cities Mission envisages development of the selected cities using two methods - area based development and pan-city development. Bhubaneswar-based firm ARKITECHNO Consultants has been selected to prepare the smart city proposal for Patna.
  
  
  As per preliminary plans, an area of 865 acre covering Gandhi Maidan-Patna Junction-R-Block has been earmarked under area based development. "The solutions proposed under area based development near Patna Junction-Gandhi Maidan include development of shopping complexes, IT centre near petrol pump at , cycle and jogging tracks, riverfront development and solar panels atop government buildings among others," said the PMC official.
  
  
  Apart from development of modern amenities, the concept plan has also proposed to form a heritage circuit, which would connect Golghar, Collectorate, Patna Museum and GPO. "A 2km-long footpath along with a track for motorized rickshaw is also proposed to be developed along the heritage monuments in Patna Junction and Gandhi Maidan areas," he added.
  
  
  Apart from the area based development, traffic management and e-governance have been selected under pan-city model, which envisages application of selected  to the existing citywide infrastructure.
  
  
  "Following review of the preliminary concept plan, the divisional commissioner set the target of November 15 for submission of draft project report by the consultant. The report would include the details of various proposed smart city solutions, including the respective cost components," said the PMC official.
  
  
  Several suggestions given by the senior officials present at the meeting included plans for development of three major road intersections - Income Tax, Patna Junction and Dak Bungalow. Besides, Gardiner Hospital at Income Tax roundabout has also been proposed to be developed on public-private partnership mode.
  
  



  BENGALURU: CM Siddaramaiah goes finding alternative roads to link airport faster. But his convoy chokes traffic for 7km from  to Hebbal . This is also the route which is said to see the steel flyover as approved by the state government. CM will inspect the  road that reaches the south east end of  where the second terminal is being constructed.
  
  
  The steel flyover pegged at Rs1900 crore has received criticism from all corners as government remained tight lipped about why it did not hold public consultation and consider, evaluate other options and make its observations public.
  
  
  Although this 7km is a premier road that is a traffic bottleneck for all days during peak hours but citizens and even Bengaluru Vision Group members including  suggested alternative route for construction so that the existing road is spared from any further disruption.
  
  
  



  JAIPUR: Mankakheda, Anjni Karariya and Muhri Kheda villages of  gram panchayat of  block, , have been deprived of things long taken for granted in the civilized world - there are no electricity connections here, safe drinking water is hard to find, the nearest schools and hospitals are hard to access, as the villages have no proper connecting road.
  
  
  Schoolchildren have to walk about three kilometres through a path reduced to just slush after it rains to get to the secondary school in Sandokda.
  
  
  Kuka Bhil, a resident of Mankakheda, said, "We are a people no one listens to - there are 45 Bhil families here and 20 Sahariya ones. We have no road, no electricity, no safe drinking water and no hospital within easy reach. When someone falls ill or a woman reaches the end of her pregnancy and delivery time approaches, we have a difficult time."
  
  
  Renuka, a student of Class 12 at the Sandokda school who lives in Mankakheda, said, "All of us have to walk at least three kilometres to get to school, whether rain or cold winter. At school, we don't have subject-specific teachers either for the higher classes."
  
  
  Firoz Khan, a social worker in the area, said that MLA  who is the local representative had visited these villages, and the people had told him of their concerns. "Nothing came of it, though," Khan said.
  
  
  MLA Meena said, "These are villages right on the border with MP. These are also, some of them, on lands that belong to the forest department. That is why special permissions are needed for laying a road or for electricity connections in these village areas."
  
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  has given strict instructions to officials concerned for cancellation of driving license of those who indulge in careless driving and cause accidents.
  
  
  The minister gave the instructions during a meeting with transport secretary, transport commissioner,  chairman and MD here on Thursday. The meeting was convened in view of the increasing number of accidents owing to carelessness of drivers. "The licence of those who create accidents by careless driving should be suspended. They should also be given correction training during the suspension period," the minister said.
  
  
  KSRTC would put an end to the practice of offering 'other duties to the drivers who frequently involve in accidents. The fitness certificates of vehicles should be suspended if they are found have purposefully dismantled the speed governors.
  
  
  Also, the permit of vehicles that frequently get involved in road accidents should be cancelled, the minister said. He also gave instructions to intensify vehicle-checking and monitoring to detect the violators. Though the motor vehicle act contains many provisions aimed at promoting safe driving practices, its implementation fails to take  owing to public protests, the minister said.
  
  



  KANPUR: Ailment in the spinal cord are on the rise. Riding a vehicle on dilapidated roads has now become a major cause of severe injuries in spinal cord.
  
  
  The records of the neuro-spine department of  (LLR) Hospital point out that 40% of the patients with ailments in spinal cord are those who are suffering from lower back ache (LBA). The doctors of the department say that major cause of  is riding on vehicles on dilapidated and uneven roads.
  
  
  On the occasion of World  Day on October 16, neuro spine surgeon, Dr  of LLR Hospital told TOI that of the total patients coming to the department, around 40% are suffering from LBA.
  
  
  Riding on uneven roads has emerged as a reason for spinal ailments among other causes like old injuries, low calcium and wrong body posture, the doctor added.
  
  
  Dr Gupta said that while diagnosing the patients and taking their history, in many cases it was found that those who are regularly commuting on two wheelers and passing through  have developed LBA. "One gets jerks on such roads and it exerts pressure on the spine," he said.
  
  
  The ailment related to spine are not incurable. If detected in time, chronic backaches can be treated and cured. Care should also be taken while riding a two-wheeler. Physiotherapy helps in recovery. The experts suggest that one should also pay attention to the posture while sitting. Prolonged sitting in a particular posture can cause pain. One should get up once in half-an-hour or so to avoid backache.
  
  
  



  KANPUR: , in most of the city areas are covered with potholes and in need of  work.
  
  
  The prominent roads like VIP road, Swarup Nagar, Civil Lines, Kidwai Nagar, Gumti and  are also in a pathetic condition giving commuters a tough time. The work of laying of water pipeline between  and Phoolbagh under JNNURM project from the past one year has worsened the condition of roads. The lack of proper maintenance adds to the damage on city roads due to work of laying pipelines and others.
  
  
  



  PUNE: The approach roads to the new international airport site in Purandar shrink with each passing kilometre from Pune, making the 50km ride a time-consuming journey.
  
  
  Located about 15km ahead of Saswad, the site has access from two national highways, including Pune-Solapur and Pune-Satara, besides the , a state highway. All these roads, however, pass through different ghat sections resulting in slowing down of vehicular movement.
  
  
  Once you are off the bigger highways, the interior roads become narrow. At some stretches, the carriage ways are not wide enough to even accommodate two cars at a time. A TOI reporter who travelled on the highways and then on the approach roads up to the identified airport site found that the approach routes were not maintained properly and required major work to meet the high standards that are expected of an international airport. Incidentally, of the seven villages identified for the airport, not a single village is directly connected to any of the national or state highways.
  
  
  A road from Uralikanchan (on Pune-Solapur highway) up to Waghapur is one such stretch where one cannot travel at more than 30kmph. The road is narrow, of poor standard and passes through small villages. It also passes through the Shindavane Ghat, which has difficult turns and steep gradients. Even regular users of this road say that passing through the ghat is not an easy task.
  
  
  Viththal Shinde, who was driving his truck to reach Solapur highway had halted his vehicle at the top of the ghat to check the tyres. "The turns here are sharp just like the ghat roads that are built in  to reach Konkan.There are similar challenges in Dive Ghat and at a ghat section at Kapurhol that connects the Pune-Saswad Road to  highway. The ghats will have to be restructured and widened if they are proposed to be used as an approach road to the international airport," Shinde said.
  
  
  Even local residents in villages where the airport is proposed say that they either travel up to Saswad, Jejuri, Uralikanchan or Patas to hit the highway .
  
  
  Suresh Jagtap was another commuter who was surprised when he learnt of the government decision on the new airport. "I am a local and have been travelling on these roads for years. Not a single village has direct connectivity to a big road or national highway . The area lacks infrastructure. How has the administration proposed such a big project in these villages? The administration will either have to propose new roads or it will have to widen the existing ones to make the approach to the airport site easier," Jagtap said.
  
  
  The Pune-Saswad-Waghapur stretch, which has better connectivity comparatively, is utilized at present by most vehicles. But it also lacks basic infrastructure facilities. After taking a turn from Saswad, the road turns into a single-lane stretch up to the airport site.
  
  
  Akshay Takawade, a college student from Rajewadi, said only bikes could travel easy on these roads. "Some roads have been constructed only in the last few years. How will cargo vehicles travel on these smaller roads? The government will have to acquire more land along the stretches to add more lanes,"  said.
  
  



  AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old woman and her 16-year old daughter died in a road crash early on Sunday morning when an open mini truck met with a head-on collision with a dumper on the road between  and Sadhav village in  district. The family travelling in the truck was returning to Ahmedabad after visiting a temple, said a police official of Pethapur. EMRI 108 ambulances shif ted five patients Mukesh Dantani, 14, Pintu Dantani, 27, , 28, Mahesh Dantani, 30 and Rakesh Dantani, 30, to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital.Two of them have severe injuries. The  family from Vasna, Ahmedabad, had been to Hadakvayi Mata temple at Kotha village on Saturday . On their way back, early on Sunday , the dumper hit the mini truck dislodging a portion of the truck and flinging it to the road side. ", 50, and her daughter Lakshmi, 16, were thrown off the vehicle and died on the spot," he added.
  
  



  Thane: A 33-year-old man, who allegedly mentored the young kingpin of the over Rs 500-crore Mira Road , was arrested on Sunday.
  
  
  Police questioned , a partner in a BPO business in Hari Om Plaza at Mira Road, about the functioning of the telephone scamming cartel. A top  officer confirmed the arrest and said it was a major breakthrough in the case as Kanani is the "creator" of phone frauds and  of 23-year-old , alias .
  
  
  "We have information that Kanani is the one who cracked the code of making easy money by misusing technology and playing on the fears of people. He had worked on US processes as a call centre employee and was familiar with the operations that involve calling up US citizens and exerting pressure on them to repay their credit card dues," a police source told TOI. He added that Kanani had made investments in call centres and played a vital role in setting up fake ones across the country different names.
  
  
  Police claimed Kanani had coached Thakkar on how to con US citizens from India and misuse magicJack devicesthey plug into a USB port on the user's computer and have a standard RJ-11phone jack into which any standard phone can be plugged. "Kanani and Thakkar would pose as tech support callers from legitimate IT software firms and 'alert' a victim of a computer virus. They would 'fix' the computer and also charge for a maintenance contract," said the source.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the crackdown on Mira Road call centres has broken Thakkar's back as he was planning to set up five-eight offices in Mumbai and Ahmedabad as part of his 'business expansion plan'. "The cartel had interviewed over 400 job aspirants in Mumbai and Ahmedabad and selected over 100 for the setups Thakkar was to launch in Ahmedabad," a police officer said. "Thakkarwas interested in newly constructed commercial buildings as till the other blocks would be rented or sold, the call centre operations would be smooth and no one would know what was going on."
  
  
  Police chief Param Bir Singh said, "Such call centres have brought shame to the country...fly-by-night call centres are mushrooming everywhere and there is no governing body to keep a watch on them."
  
  
  Investigators believe Thakkar's sister Reema played a vital role in the scamshe not only aided him, but also handled the finances through hawala channels. "We are yet to find trace his sister after which her role in the case would be ascertained," said a police officer. Police are also making inquiries of the involvement of hawala operatives from Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Police said last year, Thakkar had invited his friend Tapash Gupta to help set up call centres along with Mansuri. Thakkar would also often travel to South Asian countries for pleasure trips.
  
  



  Thane: A 33-year-old man, who allegedly mentored the young kingpin of the over Rs 500-crore Mira Road , was arrested on Sunday.
  
  
  Police questioned , a partner in a BPO business in Hari Om Plaza at Mira Road, about the functioning of the telephone scamming cartel. A top  officer confirmed the arrest and said it was a major breakthrough in the case as Kanani is the "creator" of phone frauds and  of 23-year-old , alias .
  
  
  "We have information that Kanani is the one who cracked the code of making easy money by misusing technology and playing on the fears of people. He had worked on US processes as a call centre employee and was familiar with the operations that involve calling up US citizens and exerting pressure on them to repay their credit card dues," a police source told TOI. He added that Kanani had made investments in call centres and played a vital role in setting up fake ones across the country different names.
  
  
  Police claimed Kanani had coached Thakkar on how to con US citizens from India and misuse magicJack devicesthey plug into a USB port on the user's computer and have a standard RJ-11phone jack into which any standard phone can be plugged. "Kanani and Thakkar would pose as tech support callers from legitimate IT software firms and 'alert' a victim of a computer virus. They would 'fix' the computer and also charge for a maintenance contract," said the source.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the crackdown on Mira Road call centres has broken Thakkar's back as he was planning to set up five-eight offices in Mumbai and Ahmedabad as part of his 'business expansion plan'. "The cartel had interviewed over 400 job aspirants in Mumbai and Ahmedabad and selected over 100 for the setups Thakkar was to launch in Ahmedabad," a police officer said. "Thakkarwas interested in newly constructed commercial buildings as till the other blocks would be rented or sold, the call centre operations would be smooth and no one would know what was going on."
  
  
  Police chief Param Bir Singh said, "Such call centres have brought shame to the country...fly-by-night call centres are mushrooming everywhere and there is no governing body to keep a watch on them."
  
  
  Investigators believe Thakkar's sister Reema played a vital role in the scamshe not only aided him, but also handled the finances through hawala channels. "We are yet to find trace his sister after which her role in the case would be ascertained," said a police officer. Police are also making inquiries of the involvement of hawala operatives from Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Police said last year, Thakkar had invited his friend Tapash Gupta to help set up call centres along with Mansuri. Thakkar would also often travel to South Asian countries for pleasure trips.
  
  

  Dehradun: Four people, including three Delhi policemen and a driver, were killed after the car they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell into a 500 metre-deep gorge in Tota Ghati on the Rishikesh-Badrinath National Highway on Saturday night. The victims which included a Delhi police additional sub-inspector (ASP), head constable and a constable had left from Delhi on Saturday morning and were on their way to Badrinath when the accident occurred.  The victims were identified as additional sub-inspector Vijendra Nagar, 56, head constable Yogesh Prasad Gaur and 39-year-old constable Arvind Kumar. The driver was identified as Rishipal Chandel.  Talking to TOI, senior superintendent of police (Tehri) N S Napalchiyal, said, The accident took place near Tota Ghati, 24 km from Devprayag, around 11:15pm on Saturday after the driver lost control of the vehicle. A police team and personnel of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were sent to conduct relief and rescue operations. The victims were found dead.  The bodies have been sent to a government hospital in Narendra Nagar for post-mortem.  We were able to identify them from identity cards recovered from the bodies. We informed the family members about the accident and they reached Tehri on Sunday afternoon, said Vinod Kumar Rana, in charge of Devprayag police station.  The family members of the deceased said that the four had left Delhi for Haridwar on Saturday morning. After reaching Haridwar on Saturday evening, they decided to travel to Badrinath on the same day.  Meanwhile, in another road accident on Sunday, a utility vehicle fell into a ditch in Kund area of Ukimath tehsil in Rudraprayag district. No casualty was reported in the accident.

  Meerut: "He was our only son. We can now only wish for it to not have happened," says a grieving Dr. , father of 21-year-old Shikar, who was one of the three students who were killed late on Friday night after the car he was travelling in was hit by a tractor on NH-1.
  
  
  Two other students of a private university in Noida were killed and seven others injured when the SUV in which they were going on a trip to  rammed into a bricks-laden tractor trolley in outer Delhi's Alipur area. The BTech IInd-year students of Amity University were going to Murthal in a hired  when the accident took place
  
  
  The family, which was getting ready for his sister's wedding on November 16, is in a state of shock. Dr. Gour, 's father, said, "All of us were getting ready for the wedding of his sister Paridhi that was scheduled on November 16. The news has come as a shock to all of us and we don't know what to say."
  
  
  Shikhar was an active part of all the celebrations for his sister's wedding. He had also gone to  recently with his mother to invite his maternal uncle.
  
  
  Police said one of the students was driving the car at high speeds when he lost control of the vehicle and it rammed into the tractor trolley. The students were thrown out of the vehicle upon impact.
  
  
  The car was completely mangled, a police officer said. The deceased have been identified as Shikhar, Ujjawal and Rajesh. They were declared brought dead by doctors at Satyawadi Raja Harish Chander (SRHC) Hospital. Shikhar belonged to Meerut, while Ujjwal hailed from Bhiwani. They were the only children of their parents. The tractor driver escaped from the spot after the accident and police were searching for him to know the exact sequence of events. The injured students - Subham (21), Pranav Pandey (20), Vijay (20), Shubham (19), Reefat (21), Vanshika (20) and Pooja (21) - were admitted to SRHC hospitals
  



  AGRA: Four people were killed and at least seven others seriously injured in a collision between a bolero jeep and bus at Adeeg road,  on early Sunday morning.
  
  
  According to police, the incident occurred at 4 am when Bolero jeep, travelling towards Govardhan, collided head on with a speeding private bus. Around 11 people were in the jeep when the incident occurred.
  
  
  Following the collision, nearby villagers rushed the injured to the hospital where Pushpraj (30), Seema (30),  (38), and the jeep driver, Girjesh (24), all residents of Muraina,  were declared dead. A case has been registered against the absconding bus driver.
  
  



  DEHRADUN: Four persons, including three  cops, were killed after the vehicle they were travelling in skidded off the road and fell into a 500-meters deep gorge near Tota ghati, about 24km before Devprayag, on Badrinath National Highway on Saturday late night.
  
  
  The accident took place between Byasi and Devprayag around 11:15pm on Saturday when the four were heading to Badrinath and the driver reportedly lost control over the vehicle, as per police officials.
  
  
  Giving further details, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Tehri NS Napalchiyal told TOI, "The accident took place late Saturday night. We received information around 11:30 pm and police team along with State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel were immediately sent to initiate relief and rescue operations. All four were found dead and their bodies."
  
  
  The victims were identified as Vijendra Nagar (56), who was an additional sub-inspector (ASP) in Delhi police, Yogesh Prasad Gaur (45), who was serving as head constable and Arvind Kumar (39), who was a constable in Delhi police. The fourth victim Rishipal Chandel was a private person.
  
  
  "We were able to ascertain their identities on the basis of identity cards recovered from their clothes. Then we informed their family members about the mishap and they reached Tehri on Sunday afternoon," said Vinod Kumar Rana, in charge of Devprayag police station.
  
  
  The bodies of the deceased persons were taken to Government hospital in Narendra Nagar for post-mortem, a police official said.
  
  
  Moreover, the family members of victims told police officials that the four had left Delhi for Haridwar on Saturday morning. "They reached Haridwar on Saturday evening and they made a spontaneous plan to leave for Badrinath on the same day. While going to Badrinath they met with an accident," said SP Tehri.
  
  
  In another road accident on Sunday, a utility vehicle fell into a ditch in Kund area of Ukimath tehsil in Rudraprayag district. However, no casualty was reported in the . "The accident occurred around 10:30am on Sunday but police teams did not find anyone from the spot. It seems that there was only driver in the vehicle he might have fled from the scene," said Ashish Semwal, district disaster management officer of Rudraprayag.
  
  



  NEW DELHI: Next time you are stopped by  at a traffic signal, they may have a safety lesson for you.
  
  
  The transgenders, associated with Noida-based NGO , and law students have teamed up with the  to
  
  to motorists in the national capital from October 25.
  
  
  The initiative, which also focuses on bringing
  
  into the mainstream, is the brainchild of Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA).
  
  
  "We will hold a dress rehearsal on October 23 at Baba Kharag Singh Marg...It will formally start on October 25. 150 volunteers and 26 transgenders will form teams and dole out traffic lessons in various districts," Dharmesh Sharma, member secretary, DSLSA, said.
  
  
  The teams will work in two shifts -- 10 AM to noon and 2 to 4 PM -- on selected days, hold banners, distribute pamphlets to motorists and interact with them.
  
  
  The volunteers have undergone a two-day training at the Traffic Training Park on Baba Kharag Singh Marg. They will impart road safety lessons on November 5, 12, 19 and 26 as part of the three-month pilot project.
  
  
  One of the objectives of our programme is to incorporate transgenders in the mainstream, said Sharma.
  
  
  Ram Kali, who heads Basera, said, "Many of the transgenders who are part of the initiative beg at traffic signals and are sex workers. This has given us hope. It's a matter of pride for our community...We will also be paid Rs 1,000 a day."
  
  
  Kali said many people praised them during one of their rehearsals at India Gate.
  
  
  "One person said to me 'usually we see people from the transgender community begging at traffic signals, but it's inspiring to see you as traffic volunteers'," said Kali.
  
  
  Another transgender, who underwent the training, said they were told how important it is to wear helmets properly.
  
  
  "I have no qualms about saying that I was a sex worker, but around a month ago, I came to know about this initiative. The members of Basera counselled me...It's been a month since I have left that profession," said Rohini (name changed).
  
  
  The volunteers will ask rickshaw-pullers and e-rickshaw drivers at metro and railway stations not to obstruct movement of passengers and park their vehicles properly, said Sharma.
  
  



  Indore: Thick cloud of dust rising from the potholes on almost all major roads of the city is causing much inconvenience to motorists plying the stretches along with residents of the areas.
  
  
  The dust has increased after rains. Worst affected are the people with a respiratory illness caused by a dust-induced allergy living in Dewas Toll, Vijay Nagar, LIG square, Old Palasia, Geeta Bhawan, White Church, Chhavni area, Bhawarkuan, Khajrana Square, Bengali Square.
  
  
  Experts say, the problems can be solved if the civic body shuns outdated techniques and adopts latest road repairing techniques to fill potholes with asphalt as and when they surface.
  
  
  "The corporation is working on old techniques to repair potholes. If a pothole is not repaired immediately, it tends to damage the road. Thereafter, vehicles moving on the road kick up. Asphalt technique should be adopted. We have intimated corporation on several occasions and even their engineer know the solution, but the situation has only worsened by the years. It causes skin and respiratory diseases," , environmentalist at  Pollution Control Board (MPPCB) said.
  
  
  He also advised that BRTS contractors and IMC workers should work jointly to clean dust on major roads of the city on a regular basis. He said, "If people want to breathe quality  in the city, steps like paved roads, effective mass transport, tightening of emission norms, uninterrupted power supply to eliminate generators and a ban on 10-year-old vehicles will have to be taken."
  
  
  Indore municipal corporation (IMC) has 100 workers and only a couple of road cleaning machines to clean dusty roads on regular basis at different places.
  
  
  But, IMC too has its limitations, say its officials. IMC chief health officer Dr K S Verma said, "Major problem is on BRTS corridor, where construction work is in progress. We have written several times to BRTS authorities to immediately clean the crap from roads".
  
  
  



  AHMEDABAD: A rumour of the death of two teens in a road crash sparked outrage among locals late on Friday night. Two men in a car were beaten up by the mob, because their vehicle had rammed into the scooter the teens were riding. It was found later that they were members of the Kabaddi World Cup organizing team. Members of the mob got into tussle with police who tried to save the duo. When police used force to disperse the mob, locals reacted by pelting stones on police vehicles. A total of 15 police vehicles were deployed at the spot to control the situation.
  
  
  E Division traffic police and  police station have together registered four FIRs over the incident. Investigators said that the two persons seated in the car were returning from Kabaddi World Cup near Kankaria Lake as one was living at a hotel near Khanpur and another in Shahibaug area.
  
  
  Gaekwad Haveli police said Natwarsinh Parsinh, a head constable with PCR Van number 39, has registered a complaint against Rafiq Visalpurwala, a resident of Gol Limda, along with a mob of 1,500 for damaging public property, rioting and causing hurt to public servant, and obstructing public servant during duty.
  
  
  "The incident took place when two teens who were residents of , were passing by  on a scooter. At that time, a car came from the diagonal direction in the BRTS track at 11.30 pm and hit the scooter," said an investigator.
  
  
  "While the duo sustained injuries, it was soon rumoured that the teens had been run over by the car. Soon after, the crowd started gathering on the road," he added. When a PCR van reached the spot, policemen found a mob of around 1,500 persons had got hold of the two men in the car and were beating them up.
  
  
  Police freed the duo and took them first to  chowky and then in a vehicle, but both times the crowd wrested them back.
  
  
  E Division traffic police station has registered a complaint against , a resident of Raipur, Chhatisgarh, who was in the car, for the accident and for violating the city police commissioner's notification for not using the BRTS track. Sections of MV Act have also been applied to charges against the father of one of the teens for allowing a minor without driving licence to use his scooter. Primary investigations revealed that the car's tire had burst leading to the accident.
  
  



  Vijayawada: Even as the land owners from Nidamanuru are strongly opposing land acquisition for metro coach depot-cum-workshop in their area, the residents of Bandar Road where the metro will be coming up between Pandit Nehru bus station (PNBS) and Penamaluru have also decided to not give up their land for metro stations.
  
  
  They took the decision after realising that  (AMRC) will be giving away part of the metro stations to private players to generate revenue.
  
  
  The metro rail stations - 12 between PNBS and Penamaluru and 13 between PNBS and Nidamanuru - will be requiring about 1,000 square yards on each of the both sides of the roads where the stations are proposed.
  
  
  For all the 23 stations, excluding the stations at nodal point PNBS, 10 acres of land will be required at the locations along the proposed metro lines.
  
  
  As per the plan, there will be two floors at the metro station. While one will be concourse floor, the top floor will be the platform with rail line.
  
  
  It is learnt that the metro rail officials, as part of revenue development plan, are exploring the options of utilising the station space to generate revenue by renting out a part of the station to commercial establishments like restaurants and shops on the first floor. The officials are also looking at generating revenue by renting out space to advertisers.
  
  
  This hasn't gone down well with the land owners. They questioned as to why the officials need 1,000 sq yards of land on each of the both sides of the road. V  from Kanuru whose property will be affected said that he is ready to part with land if it is for public good.
  
  
  But he sought to know how taking their lands and handing them to private players would amount to public purpose. "We don't have a problem with the project but we are against the commercial development.
  
  
  If it wants to develop it commercially, then let the government buy the land by giving us market rate rather than acquiring it," Venkateswara Rao suggested.
  
  
  The stakeholders pointed out that as the metro rail stations are elevated structures 1,000 sq yards will not be needed. " The station is an elevated structure and all it needs is stairs, escalator and probably an elevator. Except the parking space, other facilities can be developed in the first floor. So, for facilities other than the parking lot, land isn't required. And for parking, 1,000 sq yards is not needed at every station on both the sides of the road," Venkateswara Rao explained.
  
  
  According to him, many of the stakeholders, along both MG Road and  Road, are opposing the commercial development of the metro stations. Some of them even expressed strong discontent over the opacity of the officials with respect to divulging information.
  
  
  "The officials are not even telling us any information. Both the metro officials and district administration are proceeding unilaterally. The project is not legally determined till date," said another stakeholder.
  
  
  However, the metro officilas maintained that metro station needs 1,000 sq yards on each of the both sides of the road.
  
  
  "Apart from creating entry and exit points, facilities such as ticket counters, parking for two-wheelers and four-wheelers, medical aid centres, toilets, platforms/ramps for differently-abled people and others will be in place. So, the space is definitely required," a senior official said.
  
  
  



  Hyderabad: Chief minister  on Saturday instructed officials to prepare plans for constructing ring roads around each of the district headquarter towns and cities in view of the development that is expected to follow the creation of new districts.
  
  
  Speaking at a meet where he reviewed steps to be taken after reorganization, the chief minister said officials should also examine possibility of creating urban development bodies for each district headquarter town or city. These should be on the lines of  or Kakatiya Urban Development Authority.
  
  
  Steps must be taken, the chief minister said, according to a release from his office to create layouts for residential or commercial areas in a radius of 10 km around each district headquarters to prevent the kind of congestion that is witnessed in Hyderabad. Several senior officials attended the meeting, the press release added.
  
  
  



  KOCHI: Pressure mounts on the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) to complete relaying works of the busy Kaloor-Kadavanthra (KK) Road.
  
  
  As repeated complaints made by residents and councillors fell on deaf ears, they sought the intervention of the Kerala State Human Rights Commission (KSHRC) to ensure smooth movement of vehicles along the road. Following this,  acting chairperson P  directed the GCDA to submit a report on the issue.
  
  
  Residents have been de manding to relay the potholeridden KK Road. Unscientific traffic regulation at  and the bad condition of Kumaranasan Road have led to traffic congestion. Hanging cables and electric posts along the side of the roads also hinder smooth movement of vehicles. "I have fi led several complaints requesting authorities to undertake relaying works. As it failed to bring desired results, I approached the KSHRC," said A M Koshy , a representative of the Kumaranasan Nagar Residents' Association.
  
  
  Meanwhile, GCDA officials said they have requested the  (KSEB) to facilitate removal of cables along the KK Road.
  
  
  "But we are not responsible for relaying Kumaranasan Road or .The corporation has to undertake these works. Unless these works are completed it would not be possible to decongest Kumaranasan Junction," said a GCDA engineer.
  
  
  The officials said that the matter was taken up before the KSHRC.
  
  
  They said repair works was undertaken from Kaloor to Kathrikadavu. "Tile works along the stretch have already been completed. Tiles have been laid near St Francis Xavier Church, Bismi, Margin free supermarket and Ignou," said the engineer.
  
  
  The work on the western side of the road near Ignou was delayed due to the ongoing football matches at Jawaharlal Nehru stadium. The repair works would lead to traffic congestion.
  
  



  Kurnool: A trip to holy sites in  and  turned fatal for four people from the city on Saturday, as their car met with an accident in Chagalamarri village,  district. The victims, who were all residents of Kukatpally, were returning to Hyderabad after their trip. Three others were grievously injured in the accident.
  
  
  The mishap occurred when their SUV overturned on National Highway 40 due to over speeding. The bodies were immediately thrown out of the vehicle due to the impact of the accident. The deceased have been identified as , 55, Kanaka Raju, 72, Ranga Raju, 58, and Ramakrishna Raju, 55. The injured, Krishna Raju, Murthi Raju and Rammohan Raju, have been shifted to a local government hospital. Krishna Raju has been admitted to a district hospital in Kurnool later for better treatment. Their condition is said to be stable.
  
  
  According to police, the victims had left Hyderabad on pilgrimage four days ago. They visited Arunachalam, Kanipakkam and Tirumala. After darshan of Lord  in Tirumala on Friday, they left for Hyderabad. A few hours after leaving the holy place, they met with the accident. Allagadda DSP Eswar Reddy and local inspector Dastagiri Babu visited the site of accident. Local police sub-inspector Mohan Reddy is investigating the case.
  
  
  



  HYDERABAD: It's been two weeks since the rains subsided but roads cutting through the city's IT belt continue to lie in shambles. Crater-like pits and bumpy rides are still commonplace for those making their way through the Cyberabad region, even as the GHMC claims to have repaired many 'severely damaged' stretches.
  
  
  Clearly unhappy with the shoddy work, those residing in what is touted as the face of modern Hyderabad assert that roads in the region need more than a temporary facelift.
  
  
  "After the heavy rain spells, the substandard quality of infrastructure in Hi-tec City belt lay exposed. Entire road stretches are damaged and in many cases only 50 per cent of the road is usable -- as is the case with certain stretches along the Gachibowli main road. What civic authorities have to do now is understand why a few spells of damaged the city's thoroughfares to such an extent. Roads in the region need to be relaid completely," said , a resident of Telecom Nagar in Gachibowli.
  
  
  Dasharath Reddy, a software professional and resident of , also talks about how substandard patchwork undertaken by GHMC has done little to address commuters' woes.
  
  
  "The condition of roads in Kukatpally and Hafeezpet areas have only worsened after the rains. It takes me more than 45 minutes to travel less than 4 km between Allwyn Colony and JNTU campus. Civic authorities simply fill potholes with gravel. This is not a permanent fix. The gravel loosens and spreads all over the place, posing danger to motorists," said Reddy.
  
  
  When contacted, GHMC officials in-charge of the area said many roads were indeed badly damaged in Cyberabad region, but added that they had 'covered up' many broken stretches.
  
  
  "We have completed repair work at  and Gachibowli junctions. The severely damaged 200-250 metre-long stretch in front of E-Park in Kothaguda has also been repaired. Work has also started on damaged stretches on Gachibowli-Hafeezpet road. Since relaying the entire road is not feasible, we are looking to repair severely damaged stretches on the Kondapur-Madhapur road, Madhapur-JNTU road and Madhapur-Cyber Tower road," said R , GHMC's superintending engineer for West zone, while claiming to have completed repair works on 100-ft road in  too.
  
  
  His claims were, however, rubbished by residents and commuters.
  
  
  "In Kondapur, large potholes dot the road at 15-20 metre intervals. The plugging work that GHMC officials claim to be doing is too hurried and shoddy, the effects of which wear off in a week's time. The lane right next to Apollo pharmacy in Kondapur, for instance, was repaired and yet lies in a sorry condition. It is in need of immediate attention," said Shubham Agarwal, an IT professional and resident of Kondapur.
  
  
  Wajeed Ahmed, a techie who commutes between Kondapur and his office in Gachibowli, rued how authorities often kick off repair works right in the middle of the day. "On Friday, GHMC workers were filling potholes in front of Google office in Kondapur during the day, and adding to the traffic chaos in the area. Why can't civic works be carried out at night without holding up traffic," said Ahmed, hoping someone listens.
  
  
  



  Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Devendra  on Saturday laid the foundation stone for the Nagpur  in Fetri, an initiative that will ensure a smooth flow of the city traffic.
  
  
    Highway Authority of India (NHAI) which has started work on the project at a cost 1,170 crore, aims to complete it in 30 months by summer of 2019.
  
  
  At present, trucks coming from Jabalpur or beyond have to enter the city to go to Amravati. After the project is over, vehicles will take the outer ring road to reach  on Amravati Road, thereby bringing down traffic congestion. Same will be the case with vehicles moving in reverse direction.
  
  
  The work includes four-laning of the existing two-lane ring road from Jamtha to Gondkhairi.
  
  The work includes constructing a new road to link Amravati Road with  bypass (near Kapsi). The new road will connect Katol Road, Chhindwada Road and Kamptee Road.
  
  
  The road is being constructed on hybrid annuity model which is a mix of engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) and build, operate and transfer (BOT) systems. The Central government will pay 40% of the amount during the construction period and remaining 60% will be paid over a period of 15 years in three installments. The contractor has been allowed to get bank finance for the 70% of the latter amount, which translates into 42% of the total project cost.
  
  
  The new road will have two toll plazas. The first one will be near Khadka village, some 7.5 km from Jamtha, while the second one will be close to Pawangaon, almost 57 km from Jamtha. NHAI will provide truck and bus lay byes, medical aid posts, traffic aid posts and rest areas on the road.
  
  
  The road construction has been divided into two packages. The first includes widening the two-lane road and linking Gondkhairi with Fetri while the second includes linking Fetri with Kamptee-Kanhan bypass (near Kapsi). Work on both packages has begun simultaneously.
  
  
  After laying the foundation stone of the road, Gadkari said that 100 crore would be spent on landscaping and plantation along it. "We will try to transplant trees instead of chopping them down. We will also install LED lights all along the road," he added.
  
  
  Gadkari said the Central government had decided to set up 37 logistics park and one of them would be at Dongargaon (on Wardha Road). He asked chief minister Fadnavis to provide land for the project. The CM in his speech suggested that the park should be set up on Amravati Road.
  



  THANE: The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has proposed a Rs 50 crore-worth overhaul plan for its  system along the . Once implemented, the plan will largely benefit over six lakh-strong residents of GB Road.
  
  
  Areas beyond Majiwada like Patlipada, Bhayenderpada, etc presently have to pay a premium for sourcing tanker water daily for meeting their needs. The corporation had already expressed its inability to provide water supply to several enclaves beyond Patlipada with these residents having to rely at the mercy of the tanker mafia.
  
  
  This is surprising, as a recent self-appraisal of its water network done by the administration revealed the city received surplus water as compared to its population. The per capita supply to residents was around 220 mld instead of 150mld as per the guidelines but several areas especially those along the GB complained of scarcity.
  
  
  The civic administration has attributed the problems to lack of adequate lines laid along this developing zone following which it has decided to go in for an overhaul. The TMC presently supplies around 75 million litres to the GB stretch and another 3.5 million litres is supplied through tankers daily for the population of around six lakhs beyond Majiwada.
  
  
  However, considering the daily requirement of around 150 litres per person, the area needs around 90 mld but the present supply seems grossly inadequate and also considering the future growth of these areas, the TMC has proposed an overhaul plan for these areas.
  
  
  The overhaul plan includes setting up a new 1,300 mm pipeline from its existing supply main at Saket bridge that will pass via Balkum, Kolshet road, Bramhand to reach Patlipada and thereon to Bhayender pada. In addition three elevated supply reservoirs with roughly 2 million litres capacity each will also be set up in the area along with pumping stations and secondary level distribution lines to reach the developing corners of GB road areas. The total length of lines to be laid in this part of the city will be around 18 kms.
  
  
  The upgrade was part of the around Rs 300 crore overhaul plan initially to be financed under the Centre's AMRUT scheme. However, as the city couldn't make it to the coveted list, the corporation decided not wait long for the scheme and instead spend from its own kitty. A proposal has been put up before the general body to be taken up this month.
  
  
  



  NAVI MUMBAI: The  has advised  to avoid taking  on Sunday as it will be congested due to the . All public and private transport buses will not be allowed to enter Thane city via Kalwa bridge from 8am to 4pm and these vehicles will have to take a u-turn from Shivaji Chowk at Kalwa junction.
  
  
  All NMMT buses between Cidco stop at Chendani Koliwada in Thane (west) and various destinations in Navi Mumbai will start and end at Kalwa junction on Sunday. "The Kalwa bridge will be shut for buses from 8am to 4pm to pave way for the morcha," said a traffic official.
  
  
  Similarly, all state transport buses plying to and from Thane station and Vandana Cinema depot via Thane-Belapur Road are being rescheduled.
  
  
  They will start and terminate at Kalwa junction.
  
  
  The traffic department has appealed to motorists to avoid Kalwa bridge which is the only link between Navi Mumbai and Thane, considering the imminent jam along narrow bylanes in Thane city.
  
  
  



  NASHIK: It has been over five months that road signal has been approved for the  underpass junction on the . However, the signal is still not installed and problem of traffic disruption continue to occur in the absence of sufficient police.
  
  
  Senior police officials said that the road signal has been approved by the  (NHAI), though it would be constructed by the  on behalf of NHAI. It is just a matter of time that the road signal will be set up and the traffic will get streamlined.
  
  
  The Indiranagar underpass was closed by the Nashik police in view of accidents, traffic jam, etc on the  Highway, in July last year. The decision of the police saw people, especially residents of Indiranagar and those in the vicinity taking to streets.
  
  
  After dealing with continuous opposition over closing the underpass, the Nashik police finally buckled under political pressure and threw open the underpass in March 2016. Meanwhile, since the traffic department have to deploy at least four cops to manage the traffic, traffic officials had proposed a signal at the said junction, which was soon approved.
  
  
  However, over the past five months, motorists are awaiting installation of the signal.
  
  



  NASHIK: The  (RTO) will begin taking  against illegal transportation of school students post  informed senior officials. The action by the  against private van operators, who carry school students, subsided after the huge agitation in front of the RTO by van operators in the first week of September. Senior officials said that the action was not stopped completely as many van operators were approaching the RTO to apply for the school van permit for their vehicle.
  
  
  After the RTO initiated action against private van operators in August, a large number of vehicle owners had protested the action against them. The RTO said that many private van operators were approaching the RTO to convert the private vehicles into school vans by procuring a proper school van permit. Officials said that the concerned school van operators have been given sufficient time to get the school bus/van permit. The action against them will be initiated post Diwali. The concerned private operators have to pay a few for the permit and also have to get the vehicle colour painted in yellow, fix grills on windows, install fire fighting equipment and get the speed governor fixed as per the norms set by the  to ferry school students safely.
  
  



  Gurgaon: A builder was assaulted and his Toyota Corolla Altis damaged by eight to 10 men in a road rage attack near Good Earth City Centre mall in Sector 50 after his car brushed against the motorcycle of one of them. The victim's friend, who was passing through the area, was also beaten up when he tried to intervene. The police have arrested two of the accused.
  
  
  The crime took place around 8pm on Thursday when Sushil Kumar, a resident of Malibu Towne on Sohna Road, was returning home after visiting the Good Earth mall.
  
  
  Near the Arcadia traffic signal, his car accidently brushed against a motorcycle (HR10 W 0524). Even though the biker and his pillion rider, both  working with an online food delivery platform, did not fall off the two-wheeler, they blocked Kumar's car and asked him to come out.
  
  
  When Kumar asked them to focus on their driving, the bikers called their colleagues on phones and within minutes, around six to eight other delivery boys arrived on their bikes and began thrashing the victim.
  
  
  "Kumar's friend Sanjay was passing by and he recognised Kumar and intervened to break the fight. This irked the accused further and they beat him up too," said ACP Mahender Verma.
  
  
  

DEHRADUN: Since the past few weeks, Congress state chief Kishore Upadhyay has been in the limelight for a number of reasons. First, there were talks that he was upset at being denied a Rajya Sabha seat which showed in the way he took a contrarian stand from CM Harish Rawat on various issues. Then there was a public war-of-words with the partys allies Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) on the issue of clarification regarding contesting of seats. And on Saturday, he was reportedly purposely ignored for a key event -- the inauguration of the Tehri Adventure Tourism Festival in his home constituency of Tehri. All of this has raised speculations regarding the political future of the senior Congress leader. In Tehri for instance, a place that Upadhyay says he is emotionally attached to, the inauguration of the two-day festival was seen by many more as a show of strength by local MLA and tourism minister Dinesh Dhanai, a member of the PDF who won as an independent candidate from here in 2012 defeating Upadhyay by a margin of 344 votes. Upadhyay had won the seat two times earlier in 2002 and 2007.  At the inauguration of the festival, Dhanais supporters raised tumultuous slogans while members of the Upadhyay camp were nowhere to be seen. According to Congress insiders, Dhanai has also been taking credit for all the development work carried out in the constituency and it would make it extremely tough not only for Upadhyay but any other partys candidate to face him in the 2017 elections. When queried about his non-inclusion in an important event held at his former constituency, Upadhyay told TOI, It is the decision of the state government to invite me or not for a particular function. I do not care what message it gives to the people. Being a dedicated Congress member, I will continue to work for the party.  Meanwhile, several Congress members were quick to come out in support of Upadhyay. State Congress secretary Girish Chandra Punedha in a statement issued to the media on Saturday posed the question, Is the government being run by the Congress or independent MLAs? He claimed that it was due to the pressure of an independent MLA (read Dhanai) that the state government had not invited Upadhyay for the function. He added that during the recent political turmoil in March, the state Congress unit had stood alongside the government and took out over 500 processions across the state. Even after all this, the ignorance of the state unit by the government is unexpected and a big mistake.  Senior party leader Anand Suman Singh in a statement said that Upadhyay had previously won the seat and is presently the partys head. His presence at the function was extremely important. This is a clear case of ignorance of the party unit by the state government. It appears to be a well planned move, he said.

  CHENNAI: Three students from  and were killed and three others injured in a road  in  on Saturday early morning. Five of the six students were from SRM University while another student, Shivangi, was from Bangalore. The deceased were identified as Neil K, Shubham Singh and Samradh Singh. Shivangi, Siddharth Singh and Neelu were injured.
  
  
  Police said that the car was speeding and hit the median with great force, killing two on the spot while another succumbed to injuries soon after the accident. Sources said they were travelling from  toward  when the accident took place near the municipal Corporation office in Maraimalainagar around 5.30 am.
  
  



  Hyderabad: After National Green Tribunal (NGT) stay order on  (SRDP) work around KBR Park, work on a flyover and grade separator at  at Santoshnagar as well as at Bahadurpura has been stalled following stiff resistance from , the MIM legislator from Chandrayangutta.
  
  
  The , who is also managing director of Owaisi Hospital and Research Centre, reportedly told  (GHMC) officials that the proposed flyover in front of their hospital would impact the hospital entrance. He reportedly told the GHMC officials that there was no need for a flyover as the road is wide enough for the current traffic volume.
  
  
  "The road is part of inner ring road and connects . The project is being taken up keeping in view future needs and growing traffic volume," a senior engineering official overseeing SRDP said.
  
  
  Official sources said the Owaisi Hospital authorities did not allow the GHMC project wing officials to survey the road in front of the hospital. Interestingly, metro rail work (the corridor from JBS to Falaknuma) in the Old City could not begin due to MIM's opposition. The MIM sought change in the alignment as the proposed route affects hundreds of properties.
  
  
  Meanwhile, another SRDP package that covers a flyover, grade separators and junction improvements at L B Nagar Junction, Bairamalguda, Kamineni Hospital and Chintalkunta Checkpost could not begin as Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) is yet to finalize the project alignment. This package, to be executed in the second phase, connects Nagole, L B Nagar, Chandrayangutta and Aramgarh stretches to Shamshabad International Airport.
  
  
  The municipal corporation last year has taken up SRDP Phase I by dividing it into five packages. Of them, four were taken up to construct flyovers, skyways, grade separators and junction improvement at 18 locations. Six of them were proposed around KBR Park such as KBR entrance, Road No 12, Banjara Hills, Road No 45 junction at Jubilee Hills and Film Nagar junction.
  
  
  "Of the proposed 18 locations, work has begun at Mind Space junction, Ayyappa Society and Rajiv Gandhi statue junction at Kukatpally. The rest are facing some problem or the other," a superintending engineer of GHMC told TOI.
  
  
  Officials said an agreement was signed with B Seenaiah & Company and M Venkat Rao & Company for four packages early this year by the GHMC and the work should be completed within 24 months. Even after eight months, construction could not begin due to problems and there is uncertainty over the completion of works on time.
  
  
  When contacted, GHMC chief engineer (projects) K Suresh Kumar said Akbaruddin Owaisi raised objection over the proposed flyover at Owaisi Hospital junction and efforts were being made to explain the future requirements to the legislator.
  
  
  



  HYDERABAD: In a breather to city's tormented motorists, the  claimed that it has taken up repair works on as many as 489 pothole-ridden roads to clear the mess following the recent rains.
  
  
  As per GHMC commissioner B , the civic body has called for tenders for  works to be taken up on 399 bituminous tar (BT) roads, 75 cement concrete (CC) roads and replace 15 paver blocks. While the cost of repairing the BT roads is estimated to be Rs 66 crore, repairing the CC roads could cost the GHMC another Rs 7.3 crore and the paver blocks would cost Rs 1.4 crore. "As of now, repair work on roads at Kothaguda to Shilparamam and  are underway. We have completed road repair works in areas like, Neredmet, Malkajgiri and Chandrayangutta," he said.
  
  
  The roads that have been damaged due to recent rains and poor maintenance by the engineering wing of GHMC, measure up to 1,78,973 metres. These roads are laid through 1,124 areas in the city, said officials.
  
  
  During a review meeting with senior officials of the civic body's engineering wing, the civic chief prescribed norms and quality control measures to be adopted in the construction of roads in the city. "Initially, we have decided to construct and repair 180 km stretch of roads at a cost of Rs 75 crore," said a senior official of the engineering department.
  
  
  He further added that of the expansive road length of 9,000 km in the GHMC limits. He said that GHMC officials should inform the police and other departments concerned well in advance before taking up construction or repair of such roads. Due to pathetic condition of roads, a 24-year-old techie lost his life on his way to Hi-Tec City on September 13. A 25-year-old was also injured when he fell from his bike in front of the CM's camp office.
  
  



  JAIPUR: Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat on Friday directed the representatives of Spanish infrastructure company Sanjose to submit a comprehensive plan to construct 47-kilometre-long corridor after seeking consent from the  (JDA) bankers and it's partner firm Supreme.
  
  
  Spanish infrastructure company Sanjose, which is one of the partners in the joint venture, has proposed to construct the entire corridor on its own after dissolving the partnership with Supreme. "The firm has desired to construct the entire corridor on its own. As its a tripartite agreement, we have asked firm to seek approvals from its other partners," said Shekhawat.
  
  
  According to sources, once the proposal is submitted, the government would examine it pros and corns. The state government is expected to finalised the proposal regarding the construction of transport corridor in 47-km Ring Road project this month.
  
  
  Recently, after meeting the companies on October 5 in New Delhi, the bankers submitted two proposals to the state government.
  
  
  An official said that the bankers have proposed to allow Spanish infrastructure company Sanjose, which is one of the partners in the joint venture, to construct the entire corridor. In the second proposal, both the companies Sanjose-Supreme construct the corridor on 50:50 partnership basis.
  
  
  Presently, the work on 47-kilometre Ring Road, which will connect Ajmer Road to Agra Road, is stalled as the firm is facing paucity of funds. In 2011, the JDA had selected the joint venture of Sanjose-Supreme as the final bidder for the Ring Road project. However, after the company failed to deliver, the state government is exploring possibilities to appoint new firms.
  
  



  KOZHIKODE: The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, which is struggling to pay salary to its employees, suffered yet another blow with the state-wide hartal on Thursday. Apart from the loss incurred from the attacks against the  buses by the hartal supporters, consequent cancellation of a number of trips on the busy routes also forced the  to suffer a huge loss.
  
  
  Many services were slashed down in Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram and  districts on Thursday. Besides, a few buses which were attacked will not be able to carry out services for a couple more days for completing legal formalities and to carry out the repair work. According to the statistics available with the KSRTC, the total loss incurred due to the hartal is nearly Rs 90 lakh. While the revenue target of the zone for Thursday was Rs 1.15 crore, they could collect only Rs 27.24 lakh.
  
  
  "Three of our buses were attacked on Wednesday night and Thursday morning," said , zonal manager of the KSRTC. "We suffered a loss of around Rs 1 lakh owing to the damage of the front glass of the buses and the cancellation of the trips on Friday for completing legal formalities," said the official.
  
  
  The official added, "Though the revenue target given to us was Rs 1.15 crore for Thursday, the amount would have gone up to Rs 1.2 crore as many commuters were expected to depend on our service as it was the first working day after five days of holidays."
  
  
  



  MANALI: Passing through some of the highest mountain passes of the world, Manali-Leh , which is experiencing extreme cold conditions and some of its stretches are covered with layer of frost, is officially closed till next year. Administration has requested people to take extra precaution and drive on this route only in case of emergency.
  
  
  "It is freezing cold on high mountain passes. Those planning to go by Manali-Leh route should take precaution. Its better if travel could be avoided," Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia said. Water sources along the highway are freezing. A layer of frost is covering the road at Baralacha, Taglang-la, Pang and other high altitude areas round the clock in shady areas, increasing possibility of skidding of the vehicles.
  
  
  The temperature here is such that mountains can experience snowfall any time. Taking precautionary measures, the highway is officially declared closed on October 15 every year. Though vehicular movement continues even after this as the highway is lifeline to many settlements but people travelling would be responsible for any accident.
  
  
  The main risk is sudden snowfall which may trap vehicles at secluded areas away from help. Police posts from Sarchu too have been removed until next season. In past, too many such incidences have put people in trouble because weather between Rohtang and Taglang-la is unpredictable which changes within few minutes. No telephone network works in this area. Taking advantage of sunny sky, Border Roads Organization (BRO) has decided to keep working at some stretches as late as possible.
  
  
  



  MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district in-charge and minister for forest, environment and ecology B Ramanath Rai suggested that the package II of the  development on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru route should be taken up by not closing the road completely.
  
  
  Chairing a district-level development review meeting on Friday, Rai said provision should be made for the movement of light motor vehicles during the second phase road development on  stretch.
  
  
  Officials informed that Package II of  road development comprises construction of a concrete road for 12.38 km between Kempuhole Guest House and , near  at a cost of Rs 63.10 crore and asphaltation of 21 km road between Gulagale and Heggadde at a cost of Rs 22.18 crore.
  
  
  The package also includes construction of 50 small drains and 13 small bridges on the stretch. The minister said, "Do not close the Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway at any cost. Take up the construction work by allowing the movement of light motor vehicles. Take a final decision only after holding discussions with stakeholders," Rai directed the officials of the National Highways division of the state Public Works Department (PWD).
  
  
  Further, Rai directed the district administration to make arrangements to open the new building of Government Lady Goschen Hospital in the city at the earliest.
  
  
  Rai said all the peripheral development works of the new block of the hospital should be completed within three months. "Poor patients are facing difficulties as the new building of the only government maternity hospital in the district is not ready even after six years. We have held several rounds of meetings on the work progress. Hence, the hospital block should be opened immediately by providing all necessary infrastructure," Rai said.
  
  
  Officials informed the minister that the work of new building has been completed through CSR funding by  (MRPL), an Oil and Natural Gas Commission (ONGC) company. Works related to provision of lift, interlock, ICU, NICU, laying of pipelines and other facilities would require another Rs 10 crore. A proposal in this regard has been submitted to the government, officials explained.
  
  
  Deputy commissioner K G Jagadeesha directed officials to expedite major works utilizing the balance amount of Rs 5 crore. "All works should be completed within three months and the hospital building should be opened for poor patients by February," the DC said.
  
  
  A portion of the 163-year-old government hospital was demolished in 2011 to facilitate construction of new 12,000 sqft building. Though a donor had agreed to donate Rs 18 crore for the construction of new building for the hospital, the political developments stalled the project. Later MRPL - ONGC offered to donate funds for the construction of the building. Completion dates were extended several  and now Rai has set February 2017 as the latest deadline.
  
  
  



  KOLKATA: A woman, on her way to work at a jute mill, was run over on B T Road at Titagarh on Friday, triggering widespread protests. The agitation intensified when the car knocked down another man. After this, residents damaged the vehicle and severely beat up the motorist. He fell unconscious and had to be sent to a hospital.
  
  
  The protesters also disrupted traffic on  for over half an hour till a police team from the  commissionerate, reached the spot to rein in the mob.
  
  
  The accident took place around 9.30am when the victim,  (35), was cycling to work at Titagarh Empire Jute Mill. A witness said the motorist, headed for  from Barrackpore, was speeding and suddenly lost control. "The car was at a breakneck speed and hit the woman's bicycle from behind. As the woman was thrown off her cycle, her head was dashed against the divider, killing her on the spot. After hitting the woman, the motorist also knocked down a man crossing the road," a local trader said. The woman and the man, identified as  of Titagarh's Brambhasthan, were taken to Barrackpore BN Bose Subdivisional Hospital where Laxmi was declared dead. Hela is now battling for life at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital.
  
  
  As the news of the accident spread, residents of the area and workers from the nearby Empire jute mill rushed to the spot and pelted the car with stones. The mob dragged the driver, Somenath Banerjee, out of the car and beat him up mercilessly. He fell unconscious and had to be rescued by the police who took him to the same hospital as the victims. "The driver was also critically injured. We have seized the car. A police picket has been posted in the area," the police said.
  
  
  



  
  CHENNAI: Road relaying  in the  has suffered a setback reportedly due to shortage of funds, a corporation source has said.
  
  
  The local body is carrying out mass relaying work on more than 2,200 roads in interior areas. Although work contract packages for most of these roads were handed out before the final meeting of the council in September, relaying work was progressing at a slow pace.
  
  
  A sources in the road contractors' circles told TOI that the corporation had yet to settle payments on several of the roads and related infrastructure projects undertaken since July 22. "The bills are not getting cleared as early as we would like. There is also pressure on us to expedite the work, but we won't be able to do that unless we receive money from them. We need to pay our labourers too," said a road contractor, requesting anonymity.
  
  
  A corporation source said the bills can only be cleared for completed work. "Those who have completed the work in time have received their payments. Any talk concerning our alleged weak financial situation is bogus," said an official.
  
  
  The principal chief engineer of the local body M Pugalzhendi, while dispelling the allegations of fund crunch, acknowledged that road relaying work had hit a road block in the aftermath of announcement regarding local body elections. "We will finish all the work before the monsoon starts," he said.
  
  

 COIMBATORE: More than 200 trees between Sundarapuram and Eachanari will be felled over the next few weeks for the first phase of widening of the accident-prone Coimbatore-Pollachi Road. While environmentalists have been strongly opposing the felling of trees, daily commuters welcomed the move to begin work on the project to turn the 26km stretch road into four-lane. Officials attached to the state wing of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have begun felling the trees between Sundarapuram Junction and Eachanari Temple, a 2.6km stretch. "The stretch is hardly seven to 10m wide right now. We will expand it to 15.7m wide four-lane road with a shoulder area of 1m each on both sides for pedestrians," said an engineer attached to the highways department.The department had done a survey last year to identify the space required. "The minimum width required to create a four-lane road is 15.7m. We have successfully sought permission to fell the trees that fall within the space earmarked for the project," he said. "There are also more than 100 electricity posts and poles, which the state power utility Tangedco has agreed to remove," the official added.The remaining 23.5km stretch between Eachanari Temple and Pollachi Outer-ring Road will be widened by the Central wing of the NHAI. On this stretch, as many as 2,000 trees and electricity poles have to be removed from both the sides of the road. "We have sought permission from the revenue divisional officer and district collector to fell the trees. Once it comes through, we will commence the work," said NHAI project director Ganesh Kumar.Environmentalists, meanwhile, said the project poses a threat to the biodiversity of the district. "Officials will cut even those trees that do not fall under the project area. For instance, though the plan was to expand the road 15.7m wide, officials felled trees located 20m-22m away from roadside when they expanded Marudhamalai Road," said the president of Nature Conservation Society, N I Jalaluddin."Pointing out that there are many tamarind and thoonga vaagai trees on the stretch, Mohammed R Saleem of Environment Conservation Group said, "If they fell the trees many birds and reptiles that inhabit there will disappear, besides posing danger to our biodiversity."However, daily commuters between Pollachi and Coimbatore were a relieved lot. "Presently, it takes more than one hour to cover the 26km stretch. Since the road is too narrow, the stretch often sees road accidents," said Pollachi-based IT employee, C Vishwanath.Residents had in the past held many protests, demanding widening of the road, to curb the number of accidents on the stretch.

  NEW DELHI: Three people were allegedly thrashed by a group of men in 's Krishna Nagar on Thursday evening after their car brushed against a bike.
  
  
  Manoj Aggarwal, a doctor who runs a clinic in , and his father, A L Aggarwal (68), were returning home after shutting their clinic around 5.45pm. Manoj's assistant was also in the car. On a congested road, their car brushed against a bike, after which they apologised to them. However, the bikers came after them a few minutes later and rammed their car.
  
  
  When the doctor protested, the bikers started abusing him. They also called others from the locality and demanded money. Soon, they started thrashing Manoj. When Manoj's father intervened, the men dragged the him by his hair and pushed him to the ground. He was kicked and punched several times. One of the men picked up a brick and smashed the rear windshield of Manoj's car.
  
  
  Manoj's assistant had managed to note down the number of the bike and informed police. Police said the scooter and bike used by the assailants to flee have been identified.
  
  
  Manoj alleged that one of the accused slapped him so hard that he could not hear properly from his right ear after the incident. Manoj and his father were admitted to a hospital. An FIR has been registered in the case.
  
  
  



  NAGPUR: Union transport and highways minister  and chief minister  will lay five foundation stones at five places for works on National Highway 47, between  and , and a 4-lane outer  for Nagpur on Saturday. The combined estimated cost of these road works would be Rs 1242 crore.
  



  THANE: Come October 16, Thaneites will get back the lake city's very own .
  
  
  After three successful seasons, entertaining thousands of visitors every Sunday, the event is all geared up to hit the city  this Sunday with a string of activities.
  
  
  The fourth vibrant season will bring in a lot of  and games with special events to provide revellers wholesome entertainment for three hours from 6.30am to 9.30am.
  
  
  It coincides with the festive season which could create a magical atmosphere and ambience to reckon with.
  
  
  Happy Streets took a break for four months during the monsoon. With news spreading about the start of the new season, people are eager not to miss the opening day. More cheers are on store when season IV descends on Gladys Alvares road.
  
  
  Mayor Sanjay More has expressed his curiosity and wants to make it to the opening show. "I have never missed Happy Streets and have attended all the seasons. This happens to be a citizens' movement and I can't be left behind. I will be there to encourage the participants," said More who will be inaugurating the event.
  
  
  Both the performers and spectators have been waiting to embrace the much-awaited season and will stream into the streets this Sunday with rejuvenated spirit and energy. "We are eagerly waiting for the Sunday extravaganza. We are happy that the morning dose is back," said Anirudha Kunte, a Hill Garden resident.
  
  
  The 1.7km Gladys Alvares road from Vasant Vihar junction to Happy Valley Circle will turn vehicle-free yet again for three hours where the locals will reclaim their motorable streets to walk, cycle, skate or run.
  
  
  Initiated by Thane traffic police and Thane Municipal Corporation, powered by Vijay Group-Suraksha Realty and supported by TOI, Happy Streets will go on for the next three months. "As many as 12 Sundays have been chalked out," said an organizer.
  
  
  The show's highlights are clay modelling session, zumba, yoga, nail art, police arms display, dance, music and outdoor games. "We will conduct a clay modelling activity in the Vijay Suraksha Art Zone where Thaneites make lovely art on nature," said a Vijay Group-Suraksha spokesman.
  
  
  



  DEHRADUN: Residents of Rajiv Nagar, Ajabpur and  protested at jal nigam office on Friday about the dug up roads in their areas.
  
  
  The nigam had dug up the roads to lay sewer pipes. The residents claimed that these dug up roads have been left incomplete and have not been restored, causing inconvenience to those living in the area.
  
  
  The civic work in our area is very unsatisfactory. The roads are in very bad condition, said , a resident of Ajabpur.
  
  
  Officials, however, blamed lack of funds for the delay in these works.
  
  
  S K Vikas, executive engineer, jal nigam told TOI, The central government was supposed to give us Rs 191crore but till now we have received only Rs 124 crore. But, we have already made a plan in this regard and the work will start soon.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the residents of  constituency feel that their area is being deprived of schemes which have been approved by the government.
  
  
  The government had allocated some funds under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme for sewerage and drainage work. But till now I have not seen any project related to civic development happening in my area, said Hemant Rathuri, a resident of Raipur.
  



  KOLKATA: Puspendu Banerjee is not sure if life gives a second chance but  of course does. The assistant teacher in a school in  had missed out visiting several big ticket pujas this year due to intermittent showers on all the five days. But little did he know that he will get another chance in a "shobha yatra" to watch the award winning pujas at  on Friday evening. "Due to the rains during the pujas, we could only visit 30 odd pandals. But thankfully, here we can see the best pujas in the city at one go," said Banerjee with his family in tow. Sharp at 5pm, hundreds of dhaaks pulsed to life. A slow but steady wave of people snaked slowly down various approach roads to Red Road, swooning to the beats of the drums they had been listening to for almost 10 days now. They had clearly not had enough of it.
  
  
  More than 20,000 thousand people gathered at Red Road in the centre of the city to watch the parade lasting all evening showcasing the best Durga Pujas this year. The organisers walked down the iconic road with the idols. Children in fancy dress and face smeared with red colour got the best view of the parade by sitting on parents' shoulders. "It is a good outing for the children. My son was excited to see so many cops," said Papiya Guha who came from 's Kadamtala. The jamboree that followed was a melange of sound and colour giant puja floats with huge idols mounted on big vehicles, hundreds of dancers in full costumes, ear splitting music, gut-thumping beats of the dhaak and heart-warming traditional songs. "I have never seen anything like this," gushed  who is visiting the city from Patna. "We came to know about this programme when we arrived on Wednesday. I am glad I stayed back to watch this once in a life time experience," said Ali.
  
  
  One of the biggest cheers of the evening came when chief minister  made an entry to Red Road. Flanked by her officers and party colleagues, she walked down almost half kilometres greeting the audience. There were some disgruntled souls too hanging out on the fringes. Their grouse: the fabulous food that is available during the pujas was missing at the Red road jamboree. "Egg roll, chowmein aar biryani chara puja parikrama hoye ki (There is no pandal hopping without egg roll, chowmein and biryani)," said a rather disappointed Sudipto Ghosh who came all the way from . Ghosh and his ilk need not lose heart so quickly. In a  post on Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee where she extended an invitation to everybody to attend the programme at Red Road, she also said that the event will be organised on a much bigger scale next year. The puja party has just begun.
  
  



  CHENNAI: The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has taken suo motu cognizance of media reports that three  died and four others suffered injuries in a  caused by a tanker lorry at Guindy in Chennai on Thursday.
  
  
  The commission issued notices to the chief secretary and the director general of police seeking a detailed report on the accident. The report should be submitted within four weeks
  
  
  L Chitra, M Gayatri and Asha Sruthi were mowed down by a tanker driven by Rajendran while the girls were standing at a nearby petrol bunk. The commission has observed that the contents of the news reports are indicative of callous and sheer insensitive attitude of the transport department, police, Chennai Metrowater Supply and Sewerage Board.
  
  
  "The chief secretary and the DGP have been asked to inform [NHRC] about the norms relating to fitness of the water tankers, number of trips allowed, number of persons died in such accidents during last five years and preventive action taken against the erring drivers and the other officials of the department concerned. The commission would also like to know what steps are proposed to be taken to prevent the recurrence in future," said a press release issued by the NHRC.
  
  
  "It is the failure of the state transport authority to implement and enforce the rules and regulations, as also the apathy of police officials and other administrative officers that results in exposing the innocent citizens to all kinds of risks on road. The non-checking of actual persons at the wheels results in driving by incompetent minors as well as vehicles going out of control by drunken driving. The safety of citizens should be the primary concern of the government," said the release.
  
  
  The state government could not escape its obligation of protecting the lives of its citizens from such preventable gruesome mishaps, it said.
  
  
  Quoting media reports, the NHRC said the accident could have been prevented if commercial vehicles used for the public purpose had been checked for road worthiness every six months, in addition to the fitness certificate process that they undergo every year.
  
  
  



  LUDHIANA: Cabinet minister Sharanjit Singh Dhillon on Thursday, laid the foundation stone of a branch  in Koom Kalan, thereby fulfilling the long pending demand of industrialists of the area. Speaking on the occasion Dhillon said, "Once complete this road will highly benefit the residents of the area and as well as industrialists whose factories are located in the vicinity of Koom Kalan,Kohara and Macchiwara" He also added, "A Power Grid has already been set up in this area to facilitate the  and to ensure that the Industry does not suffer from power supply problems. The government is aware that large number of industrialists are planning to set up new industries in this area, so we are developing the  at a very fast pace as establishing more industry here will lead to generation of employment of youths and improvement of living standard of the people in this belt"
  
  
  Meanwhile industrialists who were present during the stone laying ceremony lauded the efforts of Dhillon and thanked him for addressing to their problems. Those present on the occasion included, President of chamber of industrial and commercial undertakings (CICU) Avtar Singh, Chairman of Small Industrial Development Board Upkar Singh Ahuja & Sant Lal Kapur, Rajan Mittal, Amrik Singh, Manish Kumar, Neeraj Satija, Abhishek Soyan, R K Batta, Tejinder Singh and others.
  
  

PUNE: Regular commuters on Pune-Hadapsar-Saswad road have complained of bad condition of the road and have demanded urgent repairs.The commuters have said that poor condition of the road was leading to slowing down of traffic and frequent traffic jams all through the day. They have also pointed to very little presence of traffic police at the junctions to manage the traffic.Sanjay Jagtap who always travels to Saswad said that road condition has worsened after recent rains. The road has many patches wherein tar has been washed out completely. Some stretches have huge potholes. Vehicles cannot even travel at speed of 30 kmph. The administration needs to take up the repairs work at the earliest, Jagtap said.The Saswad road starts from Hadapsar and further goes to Jejuri and Phaltan. There has been significant rise in movement of heavy vehicles up to Phursungi because a goods shed of railway administration is located here.Vaibhav Pawar, a local resident said that there was a proposal to add more lanes to existing two lane road. But it seems that the proposal has not moved forward so far. Additional lanes were necessary to bring down bunching of vehicles and long queues at the crossings, he said.A flyover was recently started at the Hadapsar chowk to ensure better movement of vehicles travelling towards Saswad. 

  NAVI MUMBAI: To ensure safety for  in public transport, the  organised a seminar Women Safety in Public Transport for drivers and conductors of  buses at .
  
  "Taking insight of the Nirbhaya case, we plan to train the drivers and conductors on how to handle such situations and also equip them with various techniques of safety measures" said Hemant Nagrale, Commissioner of Police, Navi Mumbai.
  
  
  Khamkar Chandrasekar, from NMMC said, "Programmes like these are the need of the hour, especially when we hear of cases of eve teasing in public transport. Municipal Commissioner Tukaram Munde is very serious about the safety of women and children in the city especially in public transport and we plan to have GPS and CCTV in all the NMMT buses".
  
  Presently, NMMT has a total of 360 Volvo buses. Of these, 70 buses have been installed with CCTV.
  
  
  "As crimes against women are increasing, we have started this initiative to enable women to feel safe while commuting in public transport" said Dilip Sawant, DCP (Crime).
  
  
  "Along with educating drivers and conductors, we have also launched the Pratisad (response) mobile app for Andriod and IOS which will ensure that the cops reach a woman in distress in seven minutes or less. Women will first have to download the app and register. Each account will be verified by the police and the user will have to keep their phone's GPS switched on while using the app. A woman in distress can click on the emergency icon in the app and cops will reach her in less than seven minutes. At least ten police officials from the local police station will be notified of her distress call" said Sangeeta Alphonso, senior PI who is heading the Women Assistance Cell.
  
  
  "This initiative by the cell is commendable and we would be promoting this through STREE and PACT- the projects of  Foundation to various schools and colleges" said Dr. , President of Heart Foundation.
  
  



  RAIPUR: Amid spate in road accidents occurring mainly during night time because of stray cattle wandering and covering up most part of the roads, and government's inefficiency in coming up with a solution , a veterinary doctor voluntarily takes an initiative to put radium belts on the animals which would serve as an indicator for commuters in the dark.
  
  
  Recently, Chhattisgarh  had asked the state government to submit a report about the initiatives being taken to prevent cattle ruling the roads.  had asked the reason from the government for the spike in the accident because of cattles on roads. Court had also asked the state government to ensure that cattle owners shouldn't be allowed to let their animals wander free on roads and be punished. Cattles should be regularly picked and sent to well-maintained shelter homes. During monsoon , on an average atleast ten accidents of cattle accidents were reported everyday in the state capital causing death or severe injury to animals or commuters.
  
  
  Dr , a veterinarian who has been voluntarily working towards free treatment of stray animals says that the commuters can't be always blamed, as the animals in large groups cover the roads and highways and are hardly visible in dark.While everyone waits for government to find some concrete solution, Dr Jain decided to get special radium belts ordered for stray cattles as a preventive measure to reduce road accidents.
  
  
  "Usually fatal accidents occur during night on highways where vehicles generally run on high speed , now these belts would help the commuter to spot an animal from a distance as they would sparkle in dark and would serve as an indicator," Dr Jain said.
  
  
  I have already got 500 belts and would begin putting them around cows, ox and buffaloes' neck. It is just the beginning of the campaign and I have already started getting support from people in the form of manpower and monetary assistance both.He says that the campaign would go on till there is a significant decrease in number of accidents and a permanent arrangement is made by the government."It is an experiment which would begin from Mandir Hasaud highway to  initially," Dr Jain further added.Dr Jain feels that the only solution to the problem is to remove all animals from roads and strict action mus be taken against the cattle owners who leave their animals on streets to die. Raipur Municipal Corporation has been making promises to get commuters rid off the problem and had issued several helpline numbers but to no avail. Animals usually dominate the roads after dark and RMC workers aren't available after 6 pm.Meanwhile, local residents of Raipur have often complained that whenever they contact rescuers who like to be called 'gau rakshak', they ask about the specie of animals. "If we say it's a buffalo or an ox, they simply say 'hum bail nahi uthate' (we don't rescue ox). We were dumbfounded over this biasness," a resident said.Reacting over the hype of 'gau rakshaks' doctor said that the word itself is wrong as any animal is a living being irrespective of being a cow, buffalo, goat or ox and all of them have right to live.
  
  
  "Being only 'gau rakshak' isn't justified." has about 92 cow shelters. Talking to TOI, director animal husbandry department, said," Government has set up a 'gau abhyaran' at Bemetara district which is a home to 300 animals including buffaloes, ox and animals lifted from roads are being shifted to well-maintained shelter homes."
  
  
  



  CUTTACK: Life-sized welcome  and  installed for  have left the city roads defaced. Roads across the city are filled with potholes and bear the scar of organizers, who having installed lights and pandals for Durga puja celebrations, have now turned the streets into lunar craters. This has now forced the  (CMC) to issue directions on Thursday to all the 156 puja committees to fill up the potholes and pits dug up by them on a priority basis.
  
  
  "The puja committees have been asked to fix the holes dug up by them on the roads within five to six days," CMC commissioner Gyana Das, said.
  
  
  The CMC commissioner claimed that no leniency will be shown to the puja committees this time. "Each of the puja committees has deposited a security amount of Rs 10,000 with the CMC before the pujas. If any of the puja committees fails to plug the holes within the stipulated time limit, then CMC will do the repair work and deduct expenses incurred from the amount deposited," Das added. Earlier, the CMC used to refund the caution money to the puja committees.
  
  



  Ranchi: Jharkhand chief minister  on Thursday expressed his gratitude to the Centre, particularly Prime Minister , for giving the green signal to a new link road between Sahebganj bypass in Jharkhand and Manihari bypass in , including four lane bridges over the river Ganga.
  
  
  Though the project was announced by the Centre early this year, Union cabinet gave its final nod to the project only on Thursday in New Delhi, putting the estimated cost of construction at Rs 1954.77 crore.
  
  
  The project cost is inclusive of the amount likely to be spent as compensation for land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement of those being evicted.
  
  
  Sources in the district administration in Sahebganj said the process of land acquisition was already under way and people have voluntarily agreed to give away their land, keeping in mind commercial activities are likely to get a major boost with the construction of this 20 km long national  to Bihar.
  
  
  Till date, the only connection between Bihar and Jharkhand is Vikramshila Setu in Bhagalpur, that too in the absence of a bridge over the Ganga. The new link road and bridge would not only reduce the travel time to Bihar but also allow trade and commercial activities for Jharkhand with rest of Northern India.
  
  
  Sahebganj MLA Anant Kumar Ojha said BJP has been keen to project Sahebgunj as trade hub of eastern India. "Historically, Sahebganj was the gateway for trade and commercial activities in the medieval past and development of road infrastructure is only going to boost economic activities of Bihar and Jharkhand," he said, adding closeness to Bengal and northeastern states and government plans to develop proper waterways would further build the transportation infrastructure in the region.
  
  
  Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping, Nitin Gadkari had made the announcement for development of multimodal port in Sahebganj on occasion of BJP's foundation day on April 6, early this year, when he held a meeting with CM Raghubar Das. Gadkari promised to release funds for construction of four lane bridge on Ganga in the current financial year. "Based on feasibility report and DPR we are ready to allocate the cost in the current financial year," Gadkari had said.
  
  
  



  KOLHAPUR: The main roads and the arterial roads connecting the city to other parts of the district will be chock-a-block for at least five to six hours on Saturday.
  
  
  The Maratha community has called for a protest rally 'Maratha Kranti Muk Morcha' on October 15. The organisers have planned to start the rally from  maidan at around 10am, however people will start arriving from 7am onwards. The police authorities expect a turnout of more than 10 lakh people but preparations have been made to accommodate 20 lakh people.
  
  
  A senior district police official requesting anonymity said, "The citizens have been asked to not bring out their vehicles on roads. The protesters from  district and  areas have planned to participate in the rally. Those arriving from long distances can stay at marriage halls. We have made parking arrangements at 45 locations." tnn
  
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government's ambitious  (KIIFB) project has got its first investor in the form of the  for AgriCulture and  (Nabard).
  
  Nabard has agreed to fund the road projects proposed through the board.The confirmation in this regard was received by the state government last week.
  
  
  The government had sought a loan of Rs 5,000 crore aimed mainly at implementing road projects that occupy the major chunk of infrastructure projects in the pipeline to be financed by KIIFB.
  
  
  Responding to the request, Nabard has agreed to take up the projects forwarded by the state, without fixing a cap on how much it would lend.
  
  
  Additional chief secretary (finance) K M , had on September 15 held discussions with the chairman and other top officials of Nabard in Mumbai, presenting the state's idea and request for funds before the agency.
  
  
  When contacted, Abraham said that Nabard's green signal to the state's re quest would come as a major share of assistance also considering the fact that road projects would require the largest share of funds.
  
  
  Each of such projects would be sanctioned based on technical feasibility and financial viability. The first board meeting of KIIFB board that has been tentatively finalised for the first week of November, to be chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is likely to consider at least 16 road projects that will now be channelized to Nabard through KIIFB.
  
  
  Nabard has also asked the government to forward the detailed project reports (DPRs) to it for funding them under Nabard Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA). The interest rates will be calculated on the basis of risk appraisal of the entity and the prevailing market conditions.
  
  
  The interest rates in such cases are usually calculated on the basis of the base rate provided by Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association of India (FIMMDA), an organisation that represents all major institutional segments of the market including the SBI and Nabard.
  
  
  The main intention of KIIFB is to provide investment for critical and large infrastructure projects in the state. The state government has already provided Rs 1,000 crore as corpus fund to KIIFB, with which the state can kick-start major projects.
  
  
  



  VADODRA: The razing teams of the  (VMC) razed dwellings near the Navjivan bus stand on the . The drive was conducted to remove encroachments from plots of the civic body as well as a road line.
  
  
  VMC officials said that two plots near the  as well as a 7.5meter wide road's space were encroached by around 60 dwellings. These were razed by the civic body on Thursday.
  
  
  A survey of the locality had been conducted by the civic body earlier and the residents were asked to fill forms for houses meant for the economic weaker sections. The residents were allotted houses at Sayajipura  National Urban Renewal Mission housing scheme. Sources said that space now available at the two plots will be used for afforestation or a similar project. The details, however, are still being worked out.
  
  
  



  MYSURU: It's final. Mysureans and tourists will have to pay for parking in the central business district.
  
  
  After dilly-dallying for nearly a decade, the Mysuru City Corporation has decided to introduce pay-and-park on three commercial streets -  Urs Road, Sayyaji Rao Road and Ashoka Road. The civic body has invited tenders online for contract to maintain parking facility and bidding opens on November 11.
  
  
  Mayor  on Thursday told reporters that  will introduced pay-and-park system in Mysuru for the first time. Though there was delay in implementing the rule it has become inevitable for the civic agency to impose the rule to tackle parking menace in the city centre.
  
  
  There were complaints against the shopkeepers for occupying most of the parking space especially of four-wheelers towards the left of Devaraja Road throughout the day and this was inconveniencing shoppers as they were not finding enough space to park their vehicles. They were forced to use NS Road and Dewan's Road to park their four-wheelers.
  
  
  The pay-and-park system is expected to ease parking issue but shoppers have to shell out from their pockets. The problem was similar on Ashoka Road and , the other two commercial streets.
  
  
  Finding space to park both two-wheelers and four-wheelers on these stretches was an herculean task for vehicle users. Mayor Byrappa said the tender will be given to the lowest bidder and works will start.
  
  
  Devaraja Market
  
  
  A special council meeting has been convened to take a decision on demolition of dilapidated Devaraj market, a portio n of which collapsed on October 18. Mayor Bhyrappa said the task force formed to study structural stability of the market building has recommended its demolition and rebuilding the structure keeping all heritage aspects in focus. Though th e council had earlier taken decision to raze the structure in 2012, we will pass a similar resolution during the meet and send it to government for action, he said.
  
  



  DHARWAD: District in-charge minister  on Thursday said that a concrete road will be constructed from the  to Murughamutt at a cost of Rs 18 crore. The tender process to allot work on the 2.6-km stretch will be started within three months, he said. He was speaking to reporters after performing bhoomi puja to take up works to fill potholes at Maratha Colony. He said that the works to fill potholes in the twin cities could not be started due to the rainy season. "Now that the rains have subsided, we are taking up road repair works," he said.
  
  
  The road repair work will be completed within the deadline, said Kulkarni.
  
  
  Residents of Maratha Colony explained their problem to the minister. Councilor Raju Ambore and Anand Singanath, and HDMC commissioner  were present.
  
  



  BELAGAVI: The Congress Road where  walked before the Independence is in a pathetic condition. There have been many accidents on this historic road due to the presence of potholes.
  
  
  With thousands of vehicles plying, the Congress Road is among the busiest in Belagavi.
  
  
  The 2,400-m road from Gogte Circle to Third Railway Gate has over 100 potholes, making life miserable for vehicle users.
  
  
  About 300m from Gogte Circle to Nanawadi Cross is under the  while the remaining is under the limits of Belagavi City Corporation (BCC). Lack of coordination between the BCC and Cantonment Board is being seen as one of the reasons why the road has not been repaired.
  
  
  The road near Military Mahadev is in a very bad condition. Local residents have demanded repair of the road, but to no avail.
  
  
  Weed growing on the footpath, which was developed during the World Kannada Meet, points to lack of maintenance. Using the road in the night is even more challenging as streetlights are not working.
  
  
  Sachin Patil, a juice center owner, said there have been many accidents, especially involving college students, due to the pathetic condition of the road. "The BCC and Cantonment Board should coordinate and immediately repair the road," he said.
  
  
  BCC commissioner,  said that after several complaints, it has been proposed to repair the road. "The repair work will be started soon," he assured.
  
  



  MUMBAI: The city's first  will result in  and a  in an area which has none today . The redevelopment will also create parking space for 4,000 cars.
  
  
  The  cluster redevelopment plans, as approved by the high-power committee of the , will transform 5-8 metre-wide lanes into 9-17.5 metre roads within the 16.5-acre cluster.
  
  
  Three of the four arterial roads that bound the cluster will be widened, some in parts like Mutton Street. The cluster is being designed so that roads are perpendicular to each other. The traffic police wanted east-west connectivity to be widened significantly for smoother flow of traffic.
  
  
  R S Potdar, deputy chief engineer, building proposal (city), said as per the approved plans, some roads will be merged, while others will be widened. "This is being done to enable cluster redevelopment. The condition, however, is that the total area of roads in the cluster cannot reduce. In fact, the area of the roads is not being reduced, roads are simply being realigned," he said. The Bhendi Bazaar redevelopment will add a recreation ground and a primary school. A building will be erected for the existing secondary school. There will not be any mall as shop-owners had rejected the concept.
  
  
  "In terms of open spaces, the area around the  Masjid and mausoleum, which is 2,000 sq metre, will increase to 4,000 sqm. Since commercial shop-owners wanted road-facing shops, the cluster has been designed so that the shops occupy the ground and first two floors of every building; above that will be parking spaces and then open podium spaces for residents," said , the project's architect.
  
  
  Mustafa Kachwala, patron, Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT), said the buildings will have an angular look going up from beyond the Saifee masjid. While the rehab buildings will vary from 31 to 45 storeys, SBUT proposed the sale of buildings above 50. Isore said the sale component was yet to be approved by the BMC.
  
  
  The artist's impression of the cluster redevelopment shows the masjid and mausoleum are the highlights.
  
  
  Work on sub-cluster one and three is expected to be completed in three years.The entire redevelopment will take at least eight years, said Isore.
  
  



  MUMBAI: The three senior  officials who were arrested in July over the Rs 353 crore road scam now feature in the police  in the case. This is the first time in years that high-ranking civic officials have not only been arrested for wrongdoing, but will also be tried.
  
  
  The chargesheet has been filed by the police's special investigation team (SIT) at the court of the 37th metropolitan magistrate. As many as 62 people have been booked in the scam and 25 arrested, including the BMC's former chief engineers (vigilance)  and Uday Murudkar, executive engineer Kishore Yerme, contractor Dipan Shah (director, Relcon Infra Projects) and 10 road work quality auditors. But the chargesheet mentions only the three BMC officials.
  
  
  A source said the police will file a supplementary chargesheet against the remaining accused by the end of the month.
  
  
  The police have invoked against the accused various IPC sections, including on cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy. The 350-page chargesheet filed in the road scam case is preliminary and has been filed just before the stipulated 90-day deadline was to end. After the deadline, the arrested persons would be entitled to bail.
  
  
  The chargesheet accuses three BMC officials who are lodged at Arthur Road Jail of not only turning a blind eye to irregularities, but also of hatching a criminal conspiracy along with third party auditors and private contractors, thus causing huge losses to the BMC.Pawar told the police it was not his responsibility to supervise road work, but there are records that show that he visited various sites while work was in progress. Pawar failed to explain this.Murudkar never visited any of the 34 construction sites that were investigated; on these roads, material used was found to be of inferior quality. Also booked was BMC executive engineer V V Achrekar, who secured anticipatory bail.
  
  
  Assistant commissioner of police (Colaba division) Rajendra Chavan confirmed that a chargesheet had been filed in the case, but refused to divulge details. The chargesheet accuses civic engineers of conniving with contractors to give false reports on road thickness levels so that less material could be used. The civic body was short-changed with exaggerated bills.While the engineers did not go on inspection, the contractors gave fake site inspection and measurement book reports.
  
  
  The chargesheet also contains reports that the contractors used trucks fitted with a vehicular tracking system (VTS) to bring ready-mix concrete from their factories to the sites, but then manipulated the system to alter readings for their own benefit.
  
  
  A police officer said, "During our inquiries, the accused contractors failed to produce bills to show that they had removed debris. Nor could they convince us on the number of trips each truck made to dump debris. But they produced transport bills and got them reimbursed by the BMC without verification."
  
  
  Activist D Stalin said, "Corruption in the BMC is deep-rooted and the civic chief will take time to clean it.The BMC should pursue the road scam case with complete honesty and ask for speedy trial to punish culprits, including BMC employees."
  
  
  TIMES VIEW:
  
  
  The chargesheeting of senior and middle-level BMC employees for their role in allowing shoddy roads to be built in Mumbai is hopefully a sign of political will in the state administration. In the past, blatant instances of corruption have been overlooked and bribe-taking officers have returned unpunished to their posts in the civic body. Barring a temporary suspension, theirs has been a life free of consequence.But not this time. That the BJP-led regime gave the go-ahead and allowed the police to carry out a full-blown investigation into a multi-crore road contract scam is a positive development. The BMC is the country's richest civic body and any such action will go a long way in improving its standards for public works.
  
  



  From the graceful, minimalist moves of Manipuri dance to the energetic, exaggerated leaps of Chhau; from the rhythmic beats of dhak to the soul stirring sound of madaldhamsa; from frames that capture Kolkata's built heritage of a bygone era to the timeless still from iconic Ray classic `Pather Panchali'; the inaugural edition of the immersion festival on  promises to be a riot for the .
  
  
  Though put together on short notice, Puja organizers are pulling out all the stops to make the Mamata Banerjee-inspired event a show-stopper.Suruchi Sangha, which won top honours in the Biswa Banga Sharad Samman intro duced by the government this year, is keeping its plans close to its chest. "We will use technology and performance to put up a show that will startle everyone," said the Puja's general secretary , Swaroop Biswas.
  
  
  Bosepukur Talbagan, which had Manipuri dance and  as its theme, will present the classical dance form, kirtan and Harir Loot at the event.
  
  
  Hindustan Park Sarbajanin that was themed `nostalgia' will showcase panels from the pandal in a float. In another float, the organizers will present a panel depicting one of the most memorable scenes from Indian cinema: Apu and Durga running towards a distant train through an overgrowth of kashphool. A third float will showcase  and will be accompanied by the song Amar Sonar Bangla'. "The flo` ats will be accompanied by dhakis," said artist Anirban Das.
  
  
  Dum Dum Park Tarun Dal will represent the Ma theme through  dance, while children will dress up as the various zodiac signs to depict the theme of Badamtala Ashar Sangha.
  
  
  As is its tradition, members of Ballygunge Cultural will accompany the idol in dhuti-punjabi and red bordered white sari and perform a chorus during the 90-second stop before the VIP podium. "We weren't really prepared to put up a special show this time, but will definitely do something more elaborate next year," said architect Anjan Ukil, the Puja secretary .
  
  
  Abasar, the Puja in Bhowanipore that drew crowds with its fairytale-themed pandal, will have men walking on stilts and santhal women dressed as fairies dancing to the tune of dhamsa-madal.
  
  
  66 Palli, which had showcased vintage Kolkata in sepia will put up the panels on a tableau. But it will not immerse the idol after the show. "We have promised locals we will return to the neighbourhood so everyone can participate in the immersion rally ," said Puja panel member Rajat Sengupta.
  
  
  One notable absentee will be Ekdalia Evergreen, the Puja that the CM personally wanted present at the show. In fact, she had dialled Subrata Mukherjee on Wednesday and urged him to participate. But club members went ahead with the immersion on Thursday . Sources said they were disappointed at the Puja not figuring in the government honour. A functionary however said they weren't ready this year and would participate in 2017.
  
  



  RAJKOT: Indian women have soared new heights by flying aircraft. But when it comes to hitting the road with luxury buses, their numbers are still countable.
  
  But  is wheeling in a change. For the first time, women will drive  (GSRTC)'s luxury buses, better known as Volvo buses, between Ahmedabad and Rajkot.
  
  
  GSRTC has decided to induct 20 women pilots on this 214 km route under the new initiative named Shakti Mahila Project. GSRTC operates 10 luxury buses that make 16 trips daily.
  
  
  "Women have proved their abilities in every profession and successfully inducted as aircraft pilots too. Why can't they drive buses?" , managing director, GSRTC, told TOI.
  
  
  Rajkot GSRTC depot has initiated the process of invi ting applications from women in the age group of 21-35 years. "The minimum education qualification is class 12 but graduates will be given preference. Heavy vehicle licence is a must," said D N Jethva, depot manager, Rajkot.
  
  
  If everything goes as per plan, women would start driving these buses in the next five months. The selected candidates will be given a special training for two weeks at Bengaluru before they join the special fleet service. "Chief minister  was keen that women be inducted into the service as Volvo pilots at par with men," Jethva said.
  
  



  NEW DELHI: In an apparent case of , a senior DANICS official and his  were harassed and roughed up by a few youths on August Kranti Marg on Wednesday night. The youths first rammed their car into the official's Ford EcoSport and then accused him of driving rashly.
  
  
  They asked the official to pay for the damage and when his wife tried to intervene, the youths abused her as well. One of the youths made a video of the woman and even allegedly touched her inappropriately.
  
  
  The officer, currently posted with Delhi government, said that he left his house in Asiad Village around 11.15pm with his wife and two daughters. His elder daughter was supposed to board a flight for a trip to Spain with her classmates. She was supposed to reach school by 11.30pm, after which the class was to leave for the airport.
  
  
  "While I was crossing the traffic light, it turned amber before I could reach the other side. A Swift car suddenly zigzagged towards us and rammed my car. The driver then stopped his vehicle ahead of mine and four youths stepped out and started abusing us," said the official. When he tried calling the PCR, the youths heckled him.
  
  
  Fortunately, a Delhi Police sub-inspector who was passing by stopped and intervened. In the meantime, the youths called their friends. "Soon 10-15 men came and started arguing with the policeman. I tried to pacify the men, but the cop advised me to stay away while he controlled the group," the official said.
  
  
  One of the youths, later identified as Rahul, started making a video of the argument on his phone. He then stopped near the official's wife and started shooting her. When she protested, he pushed her repeatedly and even touched her inappropriately in presence of her minor daughters.
  
  
  Hearing his wife's calls for help, the official pushed away the youth and asked his wife and daughter to leave. "A taxi driver passing by offered to drop my daughter at her school and did not even charge us for it. I asked my wife to return to the police station," said the official.
  
  
  Soon, cops arrived and one of the youths was taken to Hauz Khas police station. During interrogation, he tried to mislead the policemen saying that he was alone when the incident happened. However, he later revealed that one Sagar Pawar was driving the vehicle and they were accompanied by Rahul and Mahender. All of them were drunk and going to their homes in Shahpur Jat.
  
  
  Additional DCP Nupur Prasad said that a case under IPC sections 354A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (outraging the modesty of a woman), 279 (rash driving) has been registered against the men. The youths were produced before a court and sent to custody for 14 days.
  
  
  Police said that two of the accused are pursuing BBA from a private university in Noida and the other two own businesses in south Delhi.
  
  
  



  ULHASNAGAR: In yet another pothole-related death, a 26-year-old  was crushed by a speeding truck in  on Thursday morning.  was riding pillion on a scooter driven by her father Mahesh, when an auto hit their scooter near Khemani Road.
  
  
  Mahesh tried to control the two-wheeler but lost his balance due to potholes on the road and they fell down. "I fell on the left while my daughter Neha fell on the right and came below the rear wheel of a passing truck," said Mahesh.
  
  
  This is the second pothole-related death in Ulhasnagar in two months. On September 6, a 45-year-old woman was crushed by a speeding truck immediately after she fell off a scooter when it hit a pothole. The woman was riding pillion on a scooter driven by her son, when it hit a huge  on the Kalyan-Ambernath road.
  
  
  Neha recently got her degree and joined a dental college in Ambernath as lecturer just 20 days back. In the evening, she worked at a dental clinic. She lived with her parents and younger sister in Kunj Vihar Building, in Bewas area of Ulhasnagar. Her sister is studying in college.
  
  
  On Thursday morning, she was on her way to the dental college with her father, when the incident occured opposite Kalani Mahal. However, the auto driver who hit the scooter fled after the incident. Ulhasnagar police said they have booked an unknown auto driver for rash and negligent driving and are searching for him.
  
  
  Neha's cousin Manish Mirchandani said, "The  took place due to the auto driver, but the potholes too are responsible because if the road was smooth my uncle might have been able to control the scooter." Her death prompted her relatives to demand the  fill up all potholes so that no more lives are lost. Vinod Talreja, a family friend, said, "Neha died due to the negligence of the civic body. If they had filled up potholes she might have survived."
  
  
  The civic body has ordered an enquiry and Yuvraj Bhadane, public relations officer of , said, "We will look into the matter and ask the contractor to fill up all potholes."
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: The chargesheet filed in the Rs 352 crore roads repair , which rocked the country's richest civic administration earlier this year, alleges that the disparity between the work specifications laid down by the  and the actual repairs carried out on the ground ranges from 20% to 100%. This, even as the preliminary civic  report presented to BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta this April pegged the disparity at an average of 53%.
  
  
  The chargesheet accessed by TOI, which was submitted before the 64th metropolitan magistrate on Thursday, lists a breakup of inspected roads and substandard works executed. It said reparing 14 roads in the island city cost Rs 152.4 crore, 11 roads in western suburbs Rs 179 crore and nine in eastern suburbs Rs 20.6 crore.
  
  
  The chargesheet further said that three senior BMC engineers arrested in June in the case, connived with third-party quality auditors (TPQA) and contractors who used sub-standard material in road construction. At several places, police has said the required excavation work was not done and fake transport bills were submitted. The three engineers either did not visit the 34 construction sites or match the design specifications with the actual road works. This has shown up negligence in supervision of work and the engineers are accused of conspiring with the other accused to cause losses to the BMC.
  
  
  Nikhil Desai, a citizen activist from King's Circle, blamed the potholes on inferior quality of roads constructed over the past three years. "Sub-standard material went into construction of these roads and procedures set by the BMC were not followed. This has led to potholed roads in Mumbai in all areas. Mumbaikars suffer further in traffic jams for hours," said Desai.
  
  
  Milind Mhaske, project director from NGO Praja, said the fact that the court had to intervene in a matter of governance shows the failure of the past administrative leadership.
  
  
  In September 2015 civic chief Ajoy Mehta had ordered a probe into the shoddy road repairs across the city. Mehta had appointed an inquiry committee to probe into the roads repaired over three years. The team submitted a preliminary report to Mehta on April 5, which listed inspection of 34 roads that were repaired at a cost of Rs 352.1 crore. Work on almost all 34 roads was found to be shoddy. Two civic officials were served suspension notices and FIRs were filed against six contractors and two third-party auditor firms at the Azad Maidan police station.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the second phase of road report which was sent back to the inquiry team as it was not submitted in the prescribed format on Thursday.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI:  consumers in the  may save around Rs 900, including a  of up to Rs 500, in their monthly power bills for five to six years if a three-judge  bench upholds an interim order on stopping collection of  division loss  (TDLR) and terms it as illegal. Earlier this month, the SC, in an interim order, asked  to stop collecting  through its monthly power bills. Following the interim order, BEST decided to stop collecting TDLR, which works out to 14-20% of the monthly power bill, from its December billing cycle, which is to be paid in January.
  
  
  Losses in BEST's transport business, which is spread across the Mumbai metropolitan region, are collected as TDLR from only the island city's 10.5 lakh consumers.
  
  
  Discontinuation of TDLR from December will translate into an average saving of Rs 250 to Rs 500 per month on a bill of Rs 2,500 or 14-20% of the bill amount. Over and above that, if the new SC bench terms TDLR recovery itself as illegal, then BEST may have to return the entire Rs 2,900 crore collected so far, which, including interest and taxes, works out to Rs 3,500 crore. It may mean a refund of another Rs 500 per month on power bills for around six years period.
  
  
  Experts in power sector said if the SC asks to also recover TDLR from suburban consumers and beyond and not just island city consumers, then those beyond island city will have to compensate for the large sum.
  
  
  Based on the interim order, members of AHAR, an association of over 8,000 restaurants, bars and hotels, had written to BEST and MERC authorities, requesting them to refund the amount collected over the past four years with interest. Kamalakar Shenoy, an AHAR member and AAP activist, and hotelier Guruprasad Shetty, had moved SC to seek the TDLR recovery.
  
  
  Meanwhile, BEST GM Jagdish Patil said TDLR recovery would completely stop from the December billing cycle. Till then consumers will have to pay part of amount in October and November billing cycles.
  
  
  Power expert Ashok Pendse pointed to a similar refund by MSEDCL.
  
  
  



  TRICHY: The steady  throughout Wednesday night comforted the Trichittes while it caused some inconvenience to the people in some parts of the district on Thursday.  district received an average rainfall of 14.32 mm.
  
  
  One of the worst affected area was the newly constructed  subway which was inundated by water, causing suspension of traffic on the stretch.
  
  
  The sky opened around 8pm and the rain continued to lash the city. The rain stopped within an hour and again resumed around 10pm till early hours of Thursday.
  
  
  Due to the dismantling of the old road overbridge (RoB) in Thiruvanaikaval and construction of a new one, the state highways department constructed a subway to allow two-wheelers and cars in the stretch. The traffic through the subway came to a halt till Thursday evening. The traffic resumed after the water was pumped out by using motor around 4pm .
  
  
  The old structure of the walls of tank of Srirangam Ranganathar temple also collapsed in the rain. An electric pole also tilted over after the soil under it got washed away in the rain.
  
  
  The sudden rainfall also caused water stagnation in many parts of the city and rural areas. With the rainy season about to start, the corporation has a hectic task ahead to keep the drainage systems functioning smoothly.
  
  
  The rain gauge station in Trichy airport and Trichy town recorded 42.8 mm and 22.3 mm rainfall respectively.  area topped the list with 64.4 mm. Thuvakudi, Nandhiyaar, Kovilpatti were the some areas that witnessed good rainfall.
  
  
  



  
  CHENNAI: The Thoraipakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road is an arterial link between the IT Corridor and GST Road, but while it connects, it also cuts through the ecologically fragile .
  
  
  Chennai was once home to more than 400 wetlands, which played prevented flooding during the monsoon. Today, the wetlands have been encroached upon by residences, infrastructure projects, public and private institutions and even landfills, making the city vulnerable to flooding.
  
  
  Narayanapuram Lake, part of the larger Pallikaranai wetland ecosystem, was not only a source of fresh water but was also of cultural significance to the local population, according to a study by Chennai-based biodiversity research organisation CareEarth.
  
  
  The lake covered 64 acres, said CareEarth co-founder Jayashree Vencatesan, and more than 10 acres was filled to build the road and other structures. The Thoraippakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road was the first of these encroachments on the water body, she said.
  
  
  The new road led to the appearance of several residential colonies, which flood unfailingly every monsoon. One section of the lake is used as washing area for trucks and clothes and the other half is covered with water hyacinth, an invasive alien species.
  
  
  Narayanapuram Lake is part of a cascade of wetlands, which were formed by a stream. This stream, which drained from west to east, joined join a larger stream that drained from  into Pallikaranai marsh. Several water bodies in Pallikaranai village were once connected to Narayanapuram through a larger stream which flowed from south-west to north.
  
  
  CareEarth's GIS analyst S  said these cascades demonstrated the significance of the wetland for flood mitigation for a large area encompassing the Radial Road, Pallikaranai village and the emerging habitations on the southern periphery of the road. So it is no surprise that Narayanapuram Lake was the first to breach during the floods last December, he said.
  
  
  The plants of the habitat, however, indicate the possibility of reversing some of the damage. Within the immediate periphery of the wetland, 105 species of plants were recorded recently, which indicates that the area is predominantly wet, he said. The presence of typical wetland plants like ottelia, nymphaea, aponogeton, eleocharis and other sedges on what is left of the wetland as well as in the lanes of the area reiterate this notion. Minimising the impact of encroachments on Narayanapuram wetland should be the guiding principle of restoration.
  
  



  Lucknow: Installation of speed governors might begin in a fortnight in Lucknow. Passenger vehicles, including roadways and city buses, school vans and buses will have to get the device installed. Speed governor cuts fuel supply to engine as soon as the vehicle overspeeds. It can be installed either on the fuel tank or the accelerator.
  
  
    department sent on Thursday fresh proposal to the government to allow installation of the device as per revised guidelines of the Union ministry of transport and highways.
  
  
  As per the revised guidelines, a consumer should be free to get the device fitted by the vendor of his choice.  (ARAI), the agency authorised by the Union ministry has authorised vendors who would fit the device in passenger vehicles.
  
  
  "We have yet to get the list of the authorised vendors but the process of installing the device would be out shortly," said UP transport commissioner, .
  
  
  As per old guidelines, state governments had to select the vendor through tendering. UP transport department had started the process but the same had to be abandoned after the revised guidelines. The device will be conditioned at different levels of speed allowed at different zones in the city. The speed limit for each of the vehicle will vary. It will be fitted at the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in the presence of regional inspectors.
  
  



  The next time you plan to take out your  friend for a movie or on a trip, do not worry about the .  (a charitable trust run by Swarnalatha, who is affected with Multiple Sclerosis and her husband Guruprasad) is all set to launch , a special  service for the differently-abled to any destination of their choice in the city.
  
  
  Speaking to CT, Anand Selvaraj, the project co-ordinator, says, "The interiors of Sarathi, a van has been modified to accommodate a sofa, three seats, DVD player, hot kettle, chemical toilet and a storage area. There is a foldable ramp as well which can used to take wheel-chairs up and down. Six people can be accommodated in the vehicle at a time."
  
  
  He adds, "Sarathi will be available every day and the services can be availed on a first-come-first-serve basis. To begin with, we are planning to charge the users Rs 15 per km. The van can be used to go to the nearest city as well, for instance, Salem, but the user has to inform in advance. There will be waiting charges for the same. Those in the lower income group category can avail special discounts and get the price slashed by showing their income statement."
  
  
  Though the idea of a special service for the differently-abled was conceived a long time ago, the members of the foundation had to wait until they found suitable donors to get things rolling. "We were lucky to find a few donors, who believed in our idea. It is extremely difficult for people with neuro-muscular disorder, bowel & bladder incontinence, differently-abled and wheelchair bound to step out of the house. Apart from traveling, we also have to take into consideration, our bladder and bowel movements. A lot of planning goes into the number of times one can drink water when outside their homes. There are not many places in Coimbatore where there are toilets designed for differently-able and that's where Sarathi comes into the picture. The service is also open to senior citizens with bladder incontinence," says Anand.
  
  
  The services will begin by the end of the month with one van and after gauging the response for the service, the numbers might be increased. "We might scale up the operations, if we find more donors and Sarathi takes off well. The project is hugely dependent on crowd-funding."
  
  



  NASHIK: The  is treading caution before resuming its bus service to Mumbai as the route passes through the 15-km  stretch - the epicentre of Sunday's violence.
  
  
  "Bus services were closed during the past three days. No bus was allowed on the Mumbai route and to any other city from Nashik. The operations had started on Tuesday for a brief period and had to be stopped following the tension here. We have decided to release some buses from  to Mumbai and are experimenting with the situation," MSRTC (Nashik) divisional traffic officer S Jagtap said.
  
  
  The state transport authourities, however, resumed its full-fledged operations to Pune, Dhule and Aurangabad since early morning. "By evening, about 35 buses left for Pune from Nashik Road. The frequency will increase with time. Since the festival period ended on Wednesday, there was a huge rush of people working in Pune and were here. They had reached Nashik on Friday and Saturday and were on their return journey to Pune," he said.
  
  
  Services to Dhule, along with all internal areas of the district, have also resumed. "Twelve out of 13 depots in the division have started functioning. It will take some time to normalise the services normal in the city. We are in no hurry," the officer said.
  
  
  On the Mumbai route, the corporation is running the buses cautiously. "The district administration has told us that heavy patrolling is on along the Vilholi-Ghoti stretch. We have released a few buses. We will review the situation every two hours and decide on the services," Jagtap said.
  
  
  



  KOLHAPUR: Parents have yet another reason to worry while sending their kids to school.
  
  
  The district primary education department has no clue about about the functioning of the mandatory school transport committees (STCs) at government and private schools.
  
  
  Education officer (primary)  told TOI that "the committees might be functioning daily". However, when prodded further, the authorities conceded that they have no data about the meetings and if they were being conducted regularly.
  
  
  Chougule said, since it is a mandatory norm, all of our zilla parishad-run schools have formed the STCs. "And I am sure private schools too must have formed the committees and would be conducting the meetings," he said.
  
  
  When asked whether the department is planning to inspect functioning of the STCs in the private schools, Chougule said, "They will plan to take a look at the STCs' functioning in the coming days."
  
  
  The school bus transport rules, which came into effect in March 2011, have stipulated various regulations for school buses and their operators, the transport department and the school authorities. The bus safety policy, called the  (school bus regulation) rules, came into force in September 2011. The rules apply to vehicles with a seating capacity of 12 and above and exclude autorickshaws.
  
  
  In 2014, the  (RTO), Kolhapur, had set a deadline of July 31 for the transport committees to be formed across all the schools. This year, even after the commencement of the academic year, the RTO or the schools department are not aware of the status of the STCs.
  
  
  According to the rules, it is mandatory for the schools to form transport committees comprising representatives of the schools, parents as well as the transport and police departments.
  
  
  RTO officials said there is no coordination between the education department and the RTO to look after what is happening under the STC.
  
  
  Rajendra Varma, deputy RTO, Kolhapur, told TOI that there needs to be a proper communication between the departments to ensure the smooth functioning of STCs.
  
  
  The RTO looks after the physical inspection of parts of the buses, however, there should be check on the schools about committee functioning and a dialogue with the principal, which the education department needs to do, he said.
  
  
  



  Kozhikode: The  department would widen two hairpin bends on the  connecting Kozhikode and  districts in a bid to decongest the road stretch plagued by frequent traffic blocks.
  
  
  The mountain pass with nine hairpin bends has been witnessing traffic snarls mostly caused by heavy vehicles struggling to manoeuvre through the narrow and steep curves in the 11.4 km stretch.
  
  
  PWD officials said that the estimate for widening and construction of retaining walls of the two hairpin bends have been approved and the works would start within the next three months after the forest department hands over the land to the PWD.
  
  
  The department has deposited Rs nine lakh for 2.30 acres of land needed for widening of the five hairpin bends. "We are in the final stage of the land transfer. The only procedure remaining is valuation of trees in the forest to auction them off," said PWD deputy chief engineer (NH) E K Hydru.
  
  
  As per the plan, hairpin bends No 3 and 5 will be widened in the first phase. The plan to lay interlock tiles in five hairpin bends will be taken up after the land transfer is complete.
  
  
  According to PWD officials, the lack of enforcement of the order banning movement of heavy trailer trucks through the Ghat road causes traffic blocks.
  
  
  "Earlier the police used to curb the movement of trailer trucks. But now huge trucks ply on the stretch end up get caught in the bends and damage the roads," he said.
  
  
  According to sources in PWD department the viability of the proposed Chippilithodu-Maruthilavu-Thalipuzha road, an alternate to the Ghat road is in doubt since it will be difficult to get an approval from the  (MoEF) as it requires large stretch of forest land.
  
  
  



  HYDERABAD: After facing widespread criticism regarding the shoddy condition of  after rains lashed the city, the  (GHMC) on Wednesday said it would spend about Rs 75 crore to repair the main thoroughfares in the city.
  
  
  As part of its plans, GHMC commis sioner B  said there was work on 486 patches, criss-crossing 180 km of the city, which needed to be taken up on priority.
  
  
  "We will take the assistance of experts in IIT-Hyderabad, JNTU and  to ensure high quality work. Even the engineering wing of the civic body will be very alert on quality issues related to civic works," said the commissioner.
  
  
  The engineering wing of the civic body will in fact be given a training session on executing quality work. "Anyone caught taking a bribe from a contractor will be dealt with very strictly," said Reddy.
  
  



  KOCHI: The director board meeting of  held the other day has given nod for a slew of projects so as to improve and synchronize various modes of transport in . Operation and Control Centre (OCC) under the  (UMTA), walkways on Hospital Road and Chathyath and junction improvement at Edappally are the major ones among the projects cleared by the director board.
  
  
  The OCC, which will be coming up in , will synchronize all modes of transport like metro, water metro and buses. "The board has given approval for all these projects. The tender for walkways and Vyttila junction improvement will be invited within a couple of days," said sources associated with the Smart City project.
  
  
  At the same time, it would take some more time to start the tendering process for construction of OCC. "For the OCC project, we will have to engage many agencies to prepare the detailed project report. We will have to prepare the detailed estimate as well. So, it will take a month or so to finalize the tender procedures. But work on other projects like walkways can be started soon," sources said. The OCC will control the entire traffic movement inside the city. "A passenger getting off at a particular station can get information regarding feeder bus service, water metro service etc on their mobile phones so that they can access their destinations without any hardship," sources said. "Commuters can locate buses, metro trains and ferry services with the help of mobile apps," according to sources.
  
  
  The junction improvement works at Edappally will include facilities like walkway and resting places. "There will be benches and chairs on the side of the walkway. A portion of the land acquired for the metro rail project in the area would be utilized to set up a small park," an official associated with the project said.
  
  
  On the Hospital Road, a walkway connecting Maharajas College metro station with boat jetty will be constructed. There will be benches for the passengers to rest, kiosks etc. Earlier, the plan was to construct walkways on either side of the Hospital Road. "Now, we plan to construct only one walkway near to the hospital. We have to sort out some issues to start the work on the walkway to be constructed near the Maharajas College," officials said. Earlier, the health department had objected to handing over 14 cents of land from  premises for the project. Later, the hospital authorities expressed their willingness to give land for the walkway.
  
  
  There is another project to start cycles sharing in Fort Kochi. There would be cycle docks in different parts of Fort Kochi. "A person who would like to ride from one location to another in the area can make use of the bicycles after paying the charges," said sources. "The project would be piloting in Fort Kochi and would be extended to other parts later," added the source.
  
  



  BENGALURU: Finding two lesser-known routes to  in the Western Ghats through Shanivara Santhe and  is one of the most exciting things Mahadev HV has done. The 23-year-old has been mapping lesser-known trekking destinations as well as finding new routes to old spots for the past four years.
  
  When Mahadev was 19, he and read about Ombattu Gudda in Sakleshpur taluk on a blog and convinced six friends to go with him. That was the start of his love for adventure."There were no trails to the peak and we had to rely on a map. Locals told us we would run into elephants and leopards in the thick forests. We set out at 7am, got lost many times and finally reached the top at 8pm," he recalls. The group stayed overnight to watch the sunrise and ran into bisons on the way up and down. Ombattu Gudda to this day remains a challenging destination as there still are no trails.
  
  
  Mahadev is among a growing tribe of under-25s who discover lesser-known destinations and popularized them on social media and web forums. Hari Nair, CEO and co founder of HolidayIQ, said the trend of young travellers mapping new destinations and finding new experiences in every nook and corner of the country is not just changing the tourism market but also challenging old players.
  
  
  "In many places, even tour guides do not know of places that these young people are going to and blogging about," said Nair. "We're often surprised by their sense of adventure and the knowledge they gather."
  
  
  He pointed out even Gokarna, now a very popular beach destination in Karnataka, was first mapped by young tourists who had blogs. Little-known trekking spots in Sakleshpur, Biligiriranga Hills and Avalabetta in Chikkaballapura, scuba diving destinations like  in Karwar, and spelunking spot Antara Gange in Kolar were all explored by tourists themselves over the last few years.
  
  
  Mohit Grover, 23, an avid trekker from Ghaziabad who has been living in Bengaluru for six months, has summited Avalabetta in Chikkaballapura district. "This is the age to explore and have adventures.I never plan holidays. When I decided to go to Avalabetta, I didn't know it is a one-day trek and the trail is difficult.The spectacular hilltop view made it all worth it," he said.
  
  
  Bhavan Kochana, 26, recently took his friends and colleagues to  in his home district of . "Exploring the unexplored teaches you many life lessons -how to adjust with others and value nature. Tourist hotspots are always crowded and have lot of restrictions," he says."So it's better to head out on your own and explore."
  
  
  TIMES VIEW
  
  
  The government could benefit from these adventurous young people who tread paths rarely taken and find new destinations for other travellers.The tourism department could tie up with these bloggers and social media influencers to help them with their travel in return for content that it can use to popularise more of Karnataka's scenic spots. Karnataka is one of the few states with both mountain and beach destinations, as well as pilgrimage and adventure spots. It's uniquely placed to market itself as a complete holiday destination, and to collaborate with these enthusiastic young travellers would only help the state.
  
  



  KOLKATA:  has left for her heavenly abode but the city is all set to make most of her journey with a gala parade on Red Road -the iconic stretch that has hitherto remained witness to Republic Day and Independence Day parades.
  
  
  Red Road has always been close to chief minister 's heart. In the second innings, she held her swearing-in ceremony here. On Friday , there will be arrangements of the same scale on Red Road and its adjacent areas, said senior police officers. All roads leading to Red Road will be out of bound for traffic. J L Nehru Road and  are expected to bear the maximum brunt.AJC Bose Road and Circus Avenue are also likely to come to a standstill as 55 of the best Puja committees march towards Red Road for the gala show. Each puja can have four tableaux, including a miniature pandal where they hosted Ma  for the past few days. Though there's a clear indica tion of a total collapse on Friday , police are hopeful that the exte nded holiday will come to their re scue. It would have been worse had the offices and schools remai ned open on Friday , a traffic serge ant said.
  
  
  Those who won't manage to be on Red Road can catch the show live on giant screens put up around Red Road. "The idea struck the chief minister last year. But it was quite late by then. This year, after some organizers reminded her about the idea she had shared with them, she rea dily agreed. Next ye ar, the idea under Biswa Banga branding will be sold globally thro ugh internet to draw international tourists," said an information and culture department official.
  
  
  There will be elaborate security arrangements. Police have erected watch towers to keep a watch on re vellers. There will be cops in civil dress to keep potential trouble makers at bay . River traffic police will keep a vigil across the Hooghly.
  
  
  
  



  Noida: The Noida Authority has promised to open the first stretch of the city's  project before Diwali.
  
  
  It will be a tough deadline to meet as work on one of the ramps is still on but the Noida Authority officer in charge of the project insisted on Wednesday the stretch between  and NTPC crossroads will be opened by  28.
  
  
  This is only 2.5 km of the total 4.8km stretch that extends all the way to Sector 28. Once opened, the four-lane elevated stretch will provide respite to thousands of commuters who travel to Delhi,  and Greater Noida.
  
  
  According to S C Mishra, the Noida engineer in charge of the elevated road project, both carriageways of the 2.5km stretch will be completed by this month end. "The overall progress of the project is about 80%. By October 15, the last of the concrete will be laid on the stretch near the Iskcon temple," Mishra said.
  
  
  "After that we will allow eight to 10 days for the strength of concrete to be gained," he explained. "Ramps for entry and exit of vehicles are being put into place near Iskcon. We have already completed the ramp work for the NTPC crossing," he added. "Once this work is complete, we will be able to throw open the road for traffic. We are aiming for a Diwali deadline."
  
  
  The foundation for this project, commissioned in October 2014 and initiated by chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, was laid in April 2015. Once complete, the 16.63-metre-wide (with two 7.5-metre-wide lanes on both sides) elevated road with exit and entry provisions at Nithari, Sector 30, NTPC and Sector 24 will ensure seamless flow of traffic on busy stretches along its route.
  
  
  About seven points on this stretch will become signal-free. Commuters use the elevated road to reach Ghaziabad via NH-24 and East Delhi.
  
  
  



  GURGAON: The  police have sent a team to Uttar Pradesh to nab the remaining three shooters involved in the  case. The team has also taken along the mastermind of the shooting,  alias Pahalwan.
  
  
  Bishamwar is related to the absconding shooters, residents of Uttar Pradesh. A resident of Baliawas in Gurgaon, he was arrested with two accomplices, Pramod and Surender, last week. Cops had recovered a 9mm and a 30mm pistol and cartridges from , while Pramod was carrying two country-made revolvers and cartridges.
  
  
  "The investigation of the case is underway and we are sure that we will be able to catch the other three involved in the case soon," said DCP (crime), Sumit Kohar.
  
  
  On July 15 last year, three people were shot at and one died during an attack on gangster . Four to five shooters came in a Santro car and started firing at Rakesh as soon as he came out of his house in Beverly Park l society on MG Road at 9am. Hayatpur was on his way to the court and had come out of his society when shooters fired his car.
  
  
  Rakesh escaped the attack, but his driver got injured and an auto driver lost his life.
  
  
  Three police teams were formed to investigate the case and cops had set themselves a deadline of 48 hours to solve the case, yet it took them 15 months to arrest three of the accused, and others are still absconding.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: The city's first cluster redevelopment project will result in wider roads and a recreation ground in an area which has none today. The redevelopment will also create parking space for 4,000 cars.
  
  
  The  cluster redevelopment plans, as approved by the high-power committee of the , will transform 5-8 metre-wide lanes into 9-17.5 metre roads within the 16.5-acre cluster.
  
  
  Three of the four arterial roads that bound the cluster will be widened, some in parts like Mutton Street. The cluster is being designed so that roads are perpendicular to each other. The traffic police wanted east-west connectivity to be widened significantly for smoother flow of traffic.
  
  
  R S Potdar, deputy chief engineer, building proposal (city), said as per the approved plans, some roads will be merged, while others will be widened. "This is being done to enable cluster redevelopment. The condition, however, is that the total area of roads in the cluster cannot reduce. In fact, the area of the roads is not being reduced, roads are simply being realigned," he said.
  
  
  The redevelopment will add a recreation ground and a primary school. A building will be erected for the existing secondary school. There will not be any mall as shop-owners had rejected the concept.
  
  
  "In terms of open spaces, the area around the  Masjid and mausoleum, which is 2,000 sq metre, will increase to 4,000 sqm. Since commercial shop-owners wanted road-facing shops, the cluster has been designed so that the shops occupy the ground and first two floors of every building; above that will be parking spaces and then open podium spaces for residents," said , the project's architect.
  
  
   , patron, Saifee Burhani Upliftment Trust (SBUT), said the buildings will have an angular look going up from beyond the Saifee masjid.
  
  
  While the rehab buildings will vary from 31 to 45 storeys, SBUT proposed the sale buildings to be above 50. Isore said the sale component was yet to be approved by the BMC.
  
  
  The artist's impression of the cluster redevelopment shows the masjid and mausoleum are the highlights, around which the redevelopment will happen.
  
  
  Work on sub-cluster one and three is expected to be completed in three years. The entire redevelopment will take at least eight years, said Isore.
  
  



  MUMBAI: The  BMC officials who were arrested in July over the Rs 353 crore road scam now feature in the police's chargesheet in the case. This is the first time in years that high-ranking civic officials have not only been arrested for wrongdoing, but will also be tried.
  
  
  The chargesheet has been filed by the police's special investigation team (SIT) at the court of the 37th metropolitan magistrate. As many as 62 people have been booked in the scam and 25 arrested, including the BMC's former chief engineers (vigilance)  and Uday Murudkar, executive engineer , contractor Dipan Shah (director, Relcon Infra Projects) and 10 road work quality auditors. But the chargesheet mentions only the three  officials.
  
  
  Explaining this, a source said the 350-page chargesheet is preliminary, filed just before the stipulated 90-day deadline was to end, after which the arrested persons would be entitled to bail. The source said the police will file a supplementary chargesheet against the remaining accused by the end of the month. The police have invoked against the accused various IPC sections, including on cheating, forgery, breach of trust and criminal conspiracy.
  
  
  The three BMC officials are lodged at . The chargesheet accuses them of not only turning a blind eye to irregularities, but also of hatching a criminal conspiracy along with third party auditors and private contractors, thus causing huge losses to the BMC. Pawar told the police it was not his responsibility to supervise road work, but there are records that show that he visited various sites while work was in progress. Pawar failed to explain this. Murudkar never visited any of the 34 construction sites that were investigated; on these roads, material used was found to be of inferior quality.
  
  
  Also booked was BMC executive engineer V V Achrekar, who secured anticipatory bail.
  
  
  Assistant commissioner of police (Colaba division)  confirmed that a chargesheet had been filed in the case, but refused to divulge details.
  
  
  The chargesheet accuses civic engineers of conniving with contractors to give false reports on road thickness levels so that less material could be used. The civic body was short-changed with exaggerated bills. While the engineers did not go on inspection, the contractors gave fake site inspection and measurement book reports.
  



  COIMBATORE: Three youngsters died after a car in which they were travelling rammed a town bus on  near  on Wednesday.
  
  
  Police said four youths- , 22, , 21, Mohammed Shahith, 19 and Manikandan, 26, were returning to the city from Ooty. When the car reached Mettupalayam Road around 5.30pm, it came in contact with a two-wheeler.
  
  
  Askar Ali, 22, who was on the wheels, applied the brake but lost control of the vehicle as he was driving at a high speed. The car hit and jumped the median and rammed a town bus coming from the opposite direction.
  
  
  Thudiyalur police said Askar Ali, Manikandan and Mohammed Shahith died on the spot. Manikandan escaped with injuries and was admitted in a private hospital.
  
  
  Askar Ali, of , worked in a private car showroom. Manikandan was working as a mechanic in a transport company and Mohammed Shahith was a second year student in a private college. Their parents were informed about the accident.
  
  
  Police said they will register a case. "There are several eyewitnesses to the accident and we will record their statements. We will register a case and hand over the bodies after postmortem," said a police officer.
  
  



  NAGPUR: Come 2018-19, the four corners of the city will be linked by a state-of-art  rail, the first of its kind in the country, says Brajesh Dixit, managing director of  Rail Corporation Limited. In an interview, the railwayman rejects all doubts about the need for such a fund-guzzling project in Nagpur, calling it the need of the hour. He is confident there will be no cost overruns and Nagpur metro will be viable soon after all the four legs are completed in 2018-19. He calls the line connecting the under-developed outskirts to  the new epicentre of growth that will change the face of Nagpur. Excerpts from the interview:
  
  
  Q: If not open opposition, there are underlying doubts about the Metro being viable.
  
  A: Nagpur is a city of 35 lakh with 10 lakh living on the outskirts. The present public transport system is not enough. The peak hour peak direction traffic (PHPT) is 15,000 persons, while buses have the capacity to handle 5,000 only. The Metro rail will bridge the gap. People here cannot imagine what urban benefits mean. In harsh Nagpur summers, they have to travel on bikes. The Metro rail will make their journey comfortable.
  
  
  Q: You said Nagpur Metro will be the first of its kind, what makes it special?
  
  A: A train passing through a multi-storey building. One can see this only in Japan, and in India this will happen in Nagpur. There will be two stations in 20-storey buildings at  and Yeshwant Stadium with trains passing through. We will lease out commercial space in the buildings, with Nagpur Metro and NMC getting revenue. Similarly, the Metro Rail Depot at Khapri, where the line terminates, will have residential units above the building. As much as 30% of the revenue will come from such sources, reducing dependence on fare. The state government has also come up with a concept of transit oriented development (TOD). This will create more real estate development along the Metro lines as higher FSI has been allowed. This will bring more inhabitants closer to the Metro, adding to the revenue.
  
  
  Q: Instead of such a complex project cutting across the city, why not have a line along the main railway route to save money?
  
  A: The two railway lines are not compatible. The Metro runs on standard gauge, and the railway lines are broad gauge. World over, standard gauge is used in Metro rails as rolling stock. Metro coaches have a system of auto locking only after that the train moves further.
  
  
  Q: When do you expect Metro rail to
  
  become viable?
  
  A: As soon as all four legs stretching over 39km are completed. The first reach connecting airport to Khapri is expected to be finished by next year. This will be followed by the patch linking  to , then Central Avenue to Pardi, and finally Kamptee to Sitabuldi. The thumb rule is that if 10% of the population uses the service, it will be viable. Nagpur will generate this much ridership.
  
  
  Q: What is being done to provide connecting links to the Metro Stations?
  
  A: There will be walk-through corridors connecting regular train stations at Sitabuldi and Ajni to Metro. A similar arrangement is being worked out for the airport. NMC will also run feeder bus services to Metro stations. Parking will be earmarked for rickshaws and other vehicles bringing passengers to stations.
  
  
  Q: What will be the peak speed and frequency of Metro trains?
  
  A: It will be 80 km per hour, but this level will be rarely reached since many stations are within a kilometre of each other. A better signalling system will, however, increase frequency of trains. Trains will share data on the distance between them, allowing faster movement. There could be three trains running on a single track at a time.
  
  Initially, there will be three-coach rakes running within a gap of five minutes, which can be reduced further. Each rake can carry 750 passengers.
  
  
  Q: What is the progress on different phases?
  
  A: Ground has been prepared to lay tracks in a span of 3 km on the first leg of 5.6 km from Airport to Khapri. Work is underway to build a viaduct from Munje Square to Airport. Construction is in progress near , where the train will pass through  bridge on the east-west corridor. Work from Hingna end has begun and in a year it will reach Ambazari Lake, where a state-of-art station will be built.
  



  KOTA: Three persons were killed and another severely injured in the wee-hours today when their car rammed into a divider near  here, police said.
  
  
  The accident happened around 1 am when they were returning home in Chipabarode town of Baran district after attending a Dussehra procession here, Sub-Inspector with Borekheda police station, Deshhraj, said.
  
  
  Khemraj Khushwa (28), who was driving the car,  alias Siddhu (20), and Chetan Nayee (25) died on the spot, he said.
  
  
  "Injured  has been admitted to the ," he said, adding they were all friends and had come here to attend a Dussehra procession.
  
  
  "It seems the driver lost control over the vehicle which ran into a divider near an over-bridge on Kota-Baran NH in ," he said.
  
  
  Their bodies have been handed over to their families after post-mortem.
  
  
  A case has been lodged under relevant sections of the IPC, he added.
  
  



  BAREILLY: The authorities at  have sent a proposal to  for construction of a 15-kilometre long  the boundary wall of the sensitive air base. Though air force authorities patrol inside the base, there is no perimeter road outside the boundary wall for IAF and civil police for patrolling. A large number of houses are situated next to the boundary wall and residents can easily witness activities of the air base from their houses.
  
  
  Following the Pathankot attack, a meeting had taken place between  (IAF) and the district administration regarding security of Trishul. "During the meeting, the divisional commissioner had proposed building a perimeter road outside the boundary wall of air base for patrolling by both IAF and civil police. However, the land outside the boundary wall is private. The district administration will have to take possession of the private land to build the road. The district administration had conducted a survey of the area and submitted a report. We have recently submitted the report at defence headquarters for granting approval for  at a budget of nearly Rs 38 crore," said a senior official who wished not to be named.
  
  
  The perimeter road is necessary here as in case of high alert, IAF asks civil police to do patrolling in the villages situated close to Trishul Air Base, said sources. High alert was declared here after the Uri attack and surgical strikes carried out by Indian Army across LOC.
  
  
  TOI had earlier reported that there are more than 1,000 buildings situated within 100 metres of the air base. These include a large number of two to three storey houses situated next to the boundary wall. The runway and other installations of the air base are easily visible from these buildings. IAF regularly patrols inside their boundary wall but if a perimeter road is built outside the base, it will become convenient for IAF and police to keep a tab on these villages.
  
  
  IAF had sent another proposal to defence ministry for purchasing 265 acres of land situated in Bhura, Chawar and Nagaria villages located on its boundary, at a cost of Rs 10-12 crore. "The district administration has given no objection certificate (NOC) for acquiring this land. A proposal for this is pending with the ministry of defence," Air Commodore IS Walia, air officer commanding, had earlier said.
  
  



  BAREILLY: The authorities at Trishul air base have sent a proposal to defence headquarters for construction of a 15-kilometre long perimeter road outside the boundary wall of the sensitive air base. Though air force authorities patrol inside the base, there is no perimeter road outside the boundary wall for IAF and civil police for patrolling. A large number of houses are situated next to the boundary wall and residents can easily witness activities of the air base from their houses.
  
  
  Following the  attack, a meeting had taken place between  (IAF) and the district administration regarding security of Trishul. "During the meeting, the divisional commissioner had proposed building a perimeter road outside the boundary wall of air base for patrolling by both IAF and civil police. However, the land outside the boundary wall is private. The district administration will have to take possession of the private land to build the road. The district administration had conducted a survey of the area and submitted a report. We have recently submitted the report at defence headquarters for granting approval for constructing the road at a budget of nearly Rs 38 crore," said a senior official who wished not to be named.
  
  
  The perimeter road is necessary here as in case of high alert, IAF asks civil police to do patrolling in the villages situated close to Trishul Air Base, said sources. High alert was declared here after the Uri attack and surgical strikes carried out by  across LOC.
  
  
  TOI had earlier reported that there are more than 1,000 buildings situated within 100 metres of the air base. These include a large number of two to three storey houses situated next to the boundary wall. The runway and other installations of the air base are easily visible from these buildings. IAF regularly patrols inside their boundary wall but if a perimeter road is built outside the base, it will become convenient for IAF and police to keep a tab on these villages.
  
  
  IAF had sent another proposal to defence ministry for purchasing 265 acres of land situated in Bhura, Chawar and Nagaria villages located on its boundary, at a cost of Rs 10-12 crore. "The district administration has given no objection certificate (NOC) for acquiring this land. A proposal for this is pending with the ministry of defence," Air Commodore IS Walia, air officer commanding, had earlier said.
  



  DHARCHULA: The Union government will soon be speeding up the work to build and strengthen roads near the  according to , minister of state for home who flagged off a  in  in the  at 1,4140ft above sea level on Wednesday morning.
  
  
  He added that in order to stem migration from hill villages, the Central govt was also looking at improving communication and other infrastructure facilities near border villages. Speaking about the development of infrastructure and communication facilities along the border areas Rijiju asserted that the issue of communication remains challenge.
  
  
  "Local people and forces face challenges related to communication. This is 21st century India and we should be able to provide all types of communications to our people. I am directly responsible to ensure that border area deployment fund and other supplies are enhanced which we are going to do it. People will be able to get larger benefits," added the minister of state.
  
  
  Replying to the queries related to inter security of the country he added that the issue is always of prime importance. "It is round the clock thing and we give due importance to the issue. We are very much concerned about how to keep our internal security robust. I assure that there is no need of panic and the government is capable to handling the security of the nation," said Rijiju.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The expedition, an initiative of Sashastra Seema Bal will conclude Delhi on October 27. Total 41 participants from the SSB including eight female personnel started the expedition at 9.15am. As per the SSB officials this expedition is the longest and the toughest till the date in the history of any Central Armed Police Forces including the SSB.
  
  
  Praising the efforts of the SSB, the minister said, "This is a very difficult terrain and unreachable too as it takes days of foot trekking to reach here. I praise the efforts of the SSB and congratulate them for such and initiative. This expedition also carries 'Swacch Bharat Abhiyan' of the Prime Minister. Our forces are not only defending the borders and the country but also working for the welfare of the people."
  
  
  The minister himself volunteered for the SSB when the force ran a training programme in remote areas border states to train general public to counter threat in case of any aggression. The initiative was taken after 1962 India-China war as a counter-measure to get people equipped with skills to maintain resistance till the military arrives. The volunteers were paid along with providence of training, accommodation and other facilities. With time the plan was dropped as the rules of the warfare changed.
  
  
  The expedition starting from Nabhidang will reach on October 26 followed by flagin ceremony the next day. The participants will reach Delhi via Dharchula, Didihaat, Pithoragarh, Almora, Ranikhet, Nainital, Kathgodam, Baajpur in Uttarakhand entering in Uttar Pradesh in Rampur, Brijghat, Ghaziabad and then Delhi.
  
  
  Rajesh Thakur, one of the participants and commandant who recently completed Shimla mountain biking expedition successfully recently said, "Such expeditions are not only good for the armed forces but also helpful in creating awareness on various issues. Mountain biking is eco-friendly, cost effective, helps in boosting of health carrying many other benefits."
  
  
  M Ranjeeta Devi, sub-inspector in the SSB and one of the participants who is also preparing for an expedition to Mount Everest said, "This is a challenging task and sumpake another one stuous food for those who love adventure. I hope to complete this expedition and take another one soon."
  
  
  



  NOIDA: There is good news for commuters who frequent the  road-II in Noida. The first phase of the city's maiden elevated road will be completed and thrown open to traffic before the festival of  this month.  officials said on Wednesday that they are aiming to open the overhead stretch by October 28. About 2.50 kms of the total 4.80 kms will be opened for traffic between Shopprix Mall in sector 61 to NTPC cross roads near sector 24 of Noida. Once opened for motorists, the 4-lane elevated stretch will provide respite to thousands of commuters who travel to Delhi, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida.
  
  
  According to officials, both carriageways of the 2.50 stretch will be completed in October. "The overall progress of the project is about 80%. By October 15 the last of the concrete will be laid on the stretch near the Iskcon temple," said SC Mishra, Noida's Project Engineer, in-charge of the project. "After that we will allow 8-10 days for strength of concrete to be gained," he explained. "Ramps for ingress and egress for vehicles at the spot are being put into place near Iskcon. We have already completed the ramp work for the NTPC crossing," he said. "Once this work is complete, we will be able to throw open the road for traffic. We are aiming for a Diwali deadline," he added.
  
  
  Part of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav's project, the foundation for the project was laid in April last year and project was commissioned in October 2014. Once complete, the 16.63-metre-wide (with two 7.5-metre-wide lanes on both sides) elevated road with exits and entry provisions at Nithari, sector 30 and NTPC, sector 24 will ensure seamless flow of traffic at busy stretches along its route as about seven points on this stretch will become signal-free. About one lakh vehicles pass through the Sector 62 area. Commuters use the stretch to reach Ghaziabad via NH-24 and East Delhi. Several hundred vehicles also drive towards Greater Noida West area from Film City via the City Centre and Uflex route.
  
  

DHARCHULA: The Union government will soon be speeding up the work to build and strengthen roads near the border areas according to Kiran Rijiju, minister of state for home who flagged off a mountain biking rally in Nabhidang in the Dharchula area at 14,140ft above sea level on Wednesday morning.  He added that in order to stem migration from hill villages, the central government was also looking at improving communication and other infrastructure facilities near border villages. Local people face numerous challenges related to communication even now. This is the 21stcentury and we should be able to provide enhanced communication services to people. I am going to ensure that border area deployment fund and other supplies are enhanced so that people are able to get larger benefits, the minister of state said.  Replying to the queries related to the internal security of the country, he added that the issue is of prime importance and the government is fully capable of handling the security of the nation.  Praising the efforts of the Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) which had organised the rally in which 41 participants from the SSB including eight women were participating, the minister said, This is a very difficult terrain since it takes days of trekking on foot to reach here. The effort is truly laudable.  SSB officials said that the expedition was the longest and the toughest till date in the history of any central armed police force. Rajesh Thakur, one of the participants who recently completed a mountain biking expedition in Shimla, told TOI, Such expeditions are not only good for the forces but also help in creating awareness on various issues besides helping in bolstering the participants health. Added M Ranjeeta Devi, one of the women participants who is also preparing for an expedition to Mount Everest, I am geared up for the challenge and hope to complete this expedition successfully and embark on another one soon.  In the next few days, participants will ride through Didihaat, Pithoragarh, Almora, Ranikhet, Nainital, Kathgodam and Bajpur in Uttarakhand and then pass Rampur, Brijghat and Ghaziabad before reaching Delhi on October 26 where they will be welcomed by Union home minister Rajnath Singh.

  MARGAO: The route from Dabolim airport - Cansaulim bypass junction to  and to Colva circle - Taj Exotica hotel, Benaulim - Leela beach, Mobor will remain open to the general public from October 14 to 17 but with some restrictions in place, so as to facilitate smooth movement of the motorcades of dignitaries participating in the BRICS summit to be held in South Goa on October 15 and 16.
  
  
  Addressing media persons on Wednesday, the South Goa SP Shekhar Prabhudessai and Dy SP (traffic) Prabodh Shirwaikar, allayed apprehensions among some people that the route will remain out of bounds for general public during that period.
  
  
  "Anybody will be free to use any road, but with some restrictions in place," Prabhudessai said.
  
  
  While the BRICS summit will be held on October 15 and 16, the dignitaries will begin arriving in the state from October 14 and leave by October 17. The Leela, Park Hyatt and Taj Exotica resorts in South Goa are the venues of the summit.
  
  
  The police has urged the public to cooperate with them in ensuring smooth movement of the visiting VVIP motorcades and that the police will be there to guide them about taking alternative roads whenever certain stretches of the road are closed for a short time.
  
  
  



  Vadodara: The  (VMC) has finally initiated work on the  proposed to come up in the .
  
  
  The project will also be the first major work under the  by the VMC.
  
  
  The expression of interest for the work was advertised by the civic body on Tuesday. Interested agencies have been asked to submit their proposals by November 9.
  
  
  The hub was one of the most ambitious projects that the city administration wanted to take up under the Smart City Mission. While the suggestive designs prepared ahead of the first report submitted by the VMC for the Smart City Mission were very ambitious, the project is now expected to come up in an entirely different avtaar.
  
  
  The hub will be developed on an area of around 10,000 square meters that the VMC has around the bus depot and railway station. The railway station, state transport bus depot and the city bus stand will be integrated in the proposed project. The civic body may also rework the space around  to decongest it.
  
  
  The multi-modal transport hub will also contribute to smart urban mobility that was also promised under the Smart City Mission. The VMC has already commenced construction of around 130 state-of-the art bus stands in the city. The civic body promises to give good city buses to whoever alights at the Vadodara railway station or the state transport depot. Commercial properties may also come up under the project and some of the existing structures may be razed for fresh development.
  
  
  The project will come up under the public-private partnership mode as a design, built, finance and transfer project. The VMC will also get a premium from the agency that takes up the work.
  
  
  



  NASHIK: After relative calm through the day on Tuesday, instances of tension and attacks on vehicles were reported from different areas in and around the city.
  
  
  The city police blocked the  late on Tuesday evening after reports of law and order problem emerged from the area in the vicinity of the village, where the alleged rape of a 5-year-old girl took place on Saturday. The traffic moving from Trimbak Road towards Nashik was diverted through the , police said.
  
  
  Police also reported some stone pelting at the Pandavleni, where a large number of people had gathered to mark the 'Dhamma Chakra Pravartan Din'. People commemorate the day on which Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar accepted Buddhism. "These caves (Pandavleni) are one of the oldest Buddhist monuments in India. We prayed for world peace today," said , of the participants.
  
  
  Apart from this, tension was also reported in the Dwarka and  area of the city late in the evening.
  
  
  Unconfirmed reports indicated that  corporator 's house was attacked on Tuesday evening. On Sunday, Chumble had reached the Mumbai-Agra highway along with the city police to disperse the crowd that had blocked the arterial road and was attacking and damaging vehicles. tnn
  
  



  MANGALURU: The  connecting  in , which was concretized by  under its  activities, was inaugurated on Monday by Vasanti Madhwaraj, president, Yellur grama panchayat and Kishore Alva, joint president, Adani UPCL.
  
  
  The 230 metres stretch was concretized by the  at a cost of Rs 21.50 lakhs. Vasanti thanked Adani UPCL for developing the road. Kishore Alva said the company has set aside Rs 3.75 crore for development works in the village and the works are being taken up based on the action plan submitted by the gram panchayat. "Adani UPCL is committed for the development of villages. The expansion of UPCL under phase 2 will take place after a public hearing," he said.
  
  
  Taluk panchayat member Keshava Moily, members of managing committee of the Kunjuru Durga Parameshwari temple Srivatsa Rao, Dinesh Shetty, grama panchayat members Poornima Prasad, Rajendra, Pushpa Shetty, Leela Devadiga, Mohan Acharya, Raheem, Adani UPCL's AGM Girish Navada, managers Ravi Jere, Vasanth Kumar, Adani Foundation staff Vineet Anchan, Anudeep Poojary were present.
  
  
  



  AHMEDABAD : Members of two communities came to blows after an altercation over a cow sitting on a road at  near  on Tuesday afternoon.  police have registered cross-complaints for rioting from both the communities. Considering the festive season, police have also stepped up security at Kochrab to prevent any further flare-up. According to Ellisbridge police, members of a community had beaten a cow which was blocking the road near  office in Kochrab.
  
  



  THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Reckless driving by  drivers continue to be the cause behind most accident deaths in the district. On Tuesday, a 33-year-old man died after his scooter collided head on with a KSRTC bus near  College junction in the city.  of Euphratine Villa, Kadakam Pulunthuruthy, Chirayinkeezh is the deceased. The accident occurred around 11.30am. Hours ago, two young women, Neenu Prasad, 19, and her sister-in-law Anuja, 25, of  near Attingal were killed after another KSRTC bus knocked them down on national highway at Pallippuram near Mangalapuram outside the city on Monday evening.
  
  
  According to sources, Victor was recently married. His marriage was on August 19. Christina is his wife. The police have arrested the driver of the bus, Sajeer, 38, attached to KSRTC's Kaniyapuram depot in connection with the incident. He was later let go on bail.
  
  
  Victor is the fifth person being killed in an accident involving a KSRTC bus in a span of just seven days. On October 4, two women, both hailing from Attingal, had died after they were knocked down by KSRTC buses in separate incidents. Zeenath, 48, died after being knocked down by a KSRTC bus on MG Road at Statue, while riding pillion on a scooter rode by her husband and Omana, 64, died after being knocked down while she was walking along the road in Attingal.
  
  
  Since June, as many as 12 persons have become victims of KSRTC, including a class nine boy, , who was going home, riding his bicycle at Vithura. His classmate, who was riding pillion was also injured in that accident.
  
  
  Meanwhile, KSRTC officials maintained that these accidents were caused despite best measures being taken. "We issue warnings to our drivers on a daily basis to be cautious on roads. Drivers, who cause accidents are subjected to strong departmental action apart from the legal action they face from the police," said G Sarith Kumar, chiesf traffic manager, KSRTC.
  
  
  The drivers, who cause fatal accidents are placed on suspension for a period of 30 days. They are also made to sit through a week-long correctional training course.
  
  
  Sarith Kumar added that in the last three accidents involving KSRTC buses, drivers could not be blamed completely. "It is learned that Victor strayed into the wrong lane, trying to overtake an auto rickshaw and thereby got trapped in front of the bus," he said adding that carelessness of other motorists too were contributing to the rising number of accidents.
  
  



  DHARWAD: The stretch from Old SP office circle to  in  is , making travel here a trying affair. As the temporary terminus for suburban buses has been shifted to Shivaji Circle, the number of vehicles and commuters in this route has increased tremendously.
  
  
  Despite a number of minor roads in the area getting concreted, the authorities have continued to neglect this pulmonary line. Shivu Goudar, a regular commuter, said people hesitate to use the stretch during the rainy season as they get soaked by vehicles passing through puddles. "On sunny days, there will be a lot of dust in the air. Minor accidents are common as there are some huge pits," he said.
  
  
  Ravi, a local resident, said the stretch is often used by sand lorries, which are the cause for most of the accidents. SS Shettar, AEE, public works department, said that the road was dug deep for the drainage line in 2013. "After this, the base was not strengthened, which has led to its damage. Now it needs large-scale maintenance. It was part of  road, before being separated and handed over to PWD, only for maintenance. So we are currently maintaining it, but not taking up any major development work," he stated.
  
  
  



  Coimbatore: A section of drivers of the  (TNSTC) went on a flash strike for about three hours on Tuesday morning brining public transport to a grinding halt in the city after two men allegedly assaulted a driver and a conductor a day ago.
  
  
  The drivers withdrew the strike only after two men were arrested by the police. The alleged assault on a driver occurred on Monday, but the police failed to take action on the duo, forcing them to strike work, said the protesting drivers. The strike which began around 4am lasted till 7am after which bus operations returned to normalcy.
  
  
  According to police, driver Selvakumar, 32, was driving one of the TNSTC buses from Gandhipuram to  on Monday evening. When he took a left from Vilakuirichi Road to Cheran Maanagar, two men on a motorcycle attempted to overtake the bus at a high speed. The motorcycle could have rammed the bus, the drivers claimed, if not for  applying sudden brakes and brining the bus to a halt. Subsequently, Selvakumar scolded the duo for rash driving.
  
  
  However, the two, identified as , 33, of Cheran Maanagar and Subramanian, 43, of Poosaripalayam, got down from their bike and picked up a quarrel with Selvakumar. As the quarrel escalated, the two started assaulting the driver. The conductor of the bus, Sasikumar, who came to the rescue of the driver, was also beaten up.
  
  
  "Though Selvakumar lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police, they neither registered the complaint nor arrested the two," said a protesting driver.
  
  
  In the wee hours of Tuesday, the drivers and conductors gathered in front of the bus depot in Sungam and jumped into the protest. As many as 203 buses operated from Sungam depot remained stationed as the crew refused to withdraw the protest despite pacification from the superiors.
  
  
  Senior police officers also rushed to the spot and held talks with the drivers. Shortly, AIADMK functionaries and trade union leaders also visited the spot, but the drivers stood their ground. Only after the police arrested the two, the drivers gave up their protest and started operating the buses.
  
  
  



  DEHRADUN: Residents of areas like  and Rajinder Nagar in the city are distressed over the condition of roads in their localities, which they say are riddled with potholes.
  
  
  Talking to TOI, R S Bisht, a resident of Kanwali Road, said, "The roads in the city were never great but at least one could drive on them. But now look at their condition. It is difficult to even drive on Kanwali Road because there are potholes everywhere. It seems like the road is dug up all year round due to some or the other project. The travelling time has increased due to the potholed roads."
  
  
  Another resident of the area, Vikas Negi, said, "Every other day, the roads are dug up by either the pey jal nigam, the  (PWD) or the  (ADB). It is due to lack of coordination between departments that the locals have to suffer. Once the work that one department is undertaking is complete, the department concerned should automatically start repairs but this does not happen."
  
  
  The situation is the same in Rajinder Nagar. Sonam Walia, a resident, said, "It is not simply the fact that the authorities do not finish work on time but also that the quality of the raw materials used in road construction seems to be of low standard. How else would the lanes of our colony suffer heavy damage when no heavy vehicles take the road?"
  
  
  When contacted, PWD officials said that they have conducted repair work on roads that are under their management.
  
  
  Devendra Shah, executive engineer, PWD, said, "People believe that it is just PWD which is supposed to repair roads but other departments have to repair the roads which they have dug up or pay us to do so. The streets in Kanwali Road or Rajinder Nagar have been dug up by ADB to lay sewer lines and to repair them is their responsibility."
  



  VIJAYAWADA: In an attempt to give push to the  development, the government has decided to revamp the road network in the state. The development of roads is expected to help the government counter the opposition campaign about too much of concentration on the capital city construction as new road network linking the Rayalaseema districts with the capital city is being put on the . The roads and buildings department has been mandated to launch the works cleared by the government on war footing basis and finish as per the schedules. Chief minister Chandrababu Naidu has directed the officials of R and B to complete at least 400 km of work in the first year itself.
  
  
  The government has readied a blue print to lay nearly 1300-1400km long roads across the state by 2019. The R&B department estimated that it would require at least Rs 1000-Rs 1500 crore to complete the 1300-1400 km road network. "We have already completed construction of roads for about 382km by spending Rs 160 crore. The chief minister had directed us to take additional  in next 30 months," said roads and buildings minister Sidda Raghava Rao.
  
  
  According to information, the R&B department lined up works to a length of another 500km and plan to finalise the works of remaining 500 km in a couple of months. "Construction of new roads is a laborious task as it involves removal of encroachment, surveying, land acquisition and payment of reasonable compensation to the oustees. We are progressing well towards our targets by clearing the hurdles one after one," said a senior engineer of R&B department. Besides, the chief minister has made it clear that no payment should be made to any contractor in case of any compromise with regard to the quality and standards of the roads. The CMO itself is deputing senior officials for surprise checks to assess the quality of the roads prompting the department officials to be alert in clearing the bills.
  
  
  A senior official said that they have completed 41km long road of the 62km targeted in Kurnool district and 40km road of 120km targeted in Chittoor district. Similarly, the department finished 35km work of the total taken up work of 153km in Krishna district. "The progress in Guntur district is relatively fast when compared to the other districts. We have completed nearly 270km long road of the planned 351km road work. We are trying to put the works in other districts too on fast lane as CM wanted to finish the works early as infrastructure development is being considered as key to attract investments," said the official.
  
  
  The addition of the district level information to the dash board is likely to help push the developmental works to fast track as the field officials can't take excuses to track the progress of work as per the schedules. Shortly, the information with regard to the housing project implementation, epass books of revenue department too would be linked to the dash board. The government is moving towards linking the dashboard from village level shortly.
  
  



    : Technical glitches have been stalling online work at the new  (RTO) for the past few days. Non-functioning of online server has hit all major functions including online tax, vehicle's registration and issuance of fitness certificate, learning and permanent driving licence.
  
  
  All online and  at RTO are being managed by a private firm. However, just in three months the firm has started giving tough time to  as well as visitors with all sorts of goof-ups such as technical snag, power failure and shortage of staff.
  
  
  Officials say that inconsistent and slow connectivity are the reason behind the facility that replaced the conventional manual procedure turning bane instead of a boon. "When we say that the server is down, people begin to ask how much time will it take. But we are unable to answer them as we didn't know it ourselves. Even when the network is okay, it takes much time to process when we enter details," said an RTO employee on the condition of anonymity.
  
  
  He further added that sometimes they have to do overtime to complete the daily tasks especially those that cannot be delayed like issuance of permit and fitness certificate.
  
  
  Sources with transport department said that it has become a regular affair. It goes offline for more than two hours at least once in a gap of two to three days.
  
  
  "The company is also facing crunch of staff. Initially it was a team of 75 staff to manage the services, however, it has now been decreased to 25," they said.
  
  
  Every day, on an average, the RTO receives around 5000 applications, of which 60% are for licence and registration of vehicles, while rest 40% percent applications are for permit and fitness. Speaking to TOI, deputy transport commissioner (Indore division)  said, "The firm's functioning is hampered by power failure and we have already written its administration to make arrangements for power backup."
  
  
  Clear instructions have been issued to solve the problem on immediate basis.
  
  
  



  LUDHIANA: Irked over the "delay" in the construction of a road, the residents of Block D Model Town Extension dumped garbage outside the house of the road contractor on Monday.
  
  
  Contractor  Abrol, a resident of , said the activity took place on the directions of councillor Kamaljit Singh Karwal. Backing the action of residents,  said the residents have done what the contractor deserved. "The contractor has stopped the work of road construction," he added.
  
  
  He claimed that sewer lines were installed on the road five months ago, but the road hasn't been re-construction even now.
  
  
  Karwal said accidents have taken place on the road due to potholes. "Even the Dussehra celebrations have been affected due to dusty and uneven stretch," he added.  said, "The work is going on. It was stopped only on Sunday due to shortage of material. There is no other problem otherwise."
  
  
  He refuted the allegations that the work was not carried out for a long time. He said that due to the protests which were going on  road (which is also being constructed by the contractor), they had to use some material on that road, which led to shortage of material for Model Town work.
  
  
  Also some labour had gone on holidays due to festival season. Further he said the work would be completed as soon as possible. Varun said he could not identify those who threw the garbage outside his house as he was not at home and his father was unable to take pictures.
  
  
  Executive engineer H S Bhullar also said this should not have happened as the contractor is carrying out the work. He said that over 70 per cent work has been completed and construction will be over soon.
  
  



  SHIMLA: Four people were killed while 34 others were injured in different road accidents reported from  since Sunday night.
  
  
  A HRTC bus fell into a gorge in Sundernagar area of Mandi district resulting into injuries to 27 people while one person was killed and three others were injured after a bus and three cars hit each other in Katasan Devi area in Sirmaur district. In  district, a speedy car killed two people and injured three others.
  
  
  On late Sunday night, a HRTC bus on its way to Shimla from Manali carrying 36 passengers met with an accident at Bhawana near Sundernagar after the driver lost control over the wheel. As the bus fell into a 30 feet gorge, 27 passengers were injured. Two of the seriously injured passengers were referred to Mandi hospital. After receiving information about the accident, officials from the administration and police rushed to the spot to carry out rescue operation.
  
  
  On Monday afternoon around 12.15pm, a major accident occurred at Katasan Devi in Sirmaur on Kala Amb-Paonta Sahib road when a Haryana Roadways bus on its way to Paonta Sahib reportedly hit a car coming from the opposite side. Two other cars coming at the same time also collided with the bus and car. A woman was killed while three others were injured who had to be brought out after cutting the doors of cars, sources said. Police after registering the case has started the investigation.
  
  
  In Una district, a speedy car killed two people and injured three others on Sunday night near Santoshgarh. Those killed have been identified as Inder Singh and  from Mumbai who had come to attend the marriage of their relative. Police has registered the case and started the investigation.
  
  
  Another accident was reported from  district on late Sunday night where a private car met with an accident at Balu area on Chamba-Pathankot road in which Ravi Kumar a resident of Pantah was killed while another person was injured.
  
  



  CHANDIGARH: Roadshows that have hundreds of bikers following large cavalcades of cars have caught the fancy of politicians across party lines as such events rule out the unpredictability of a political rally. But given the chaos caused due to such events, Chandigarh-based road safety  Arrive Safe has sought a ban on such shows of strength.
  
  
  While a large number of  (Badal) workers took part in the 'Buland Tiranga Yatra' in Patiala last week, many of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidates kicked off their campaigns with large vehicles in tow and now Congress vice-president  plans to replicate his mega road show of  in Punjab.
  
  
  In a representation to the Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) V K Singh, Harman S Sidhu of Arrive Safe has pointed out, "The activists of political parties violate traffic rules by riding two-wheelers without helmets, driving in wrong direction, jump red lights, speeding and triple-riding and indulge in hooliganism. Many a times, police officials are seen blocking the traffic flow to facilitate these roadshows turning a blind eye to violations. We cannot expect the traffic policemen to issue challans to them."
  
  
  "This sets a bad example for the youngsters encouraging them to violate rules of the road. Our behaviour on the road is a reflection of our character and these road shows show our great country in a bad light. The chaos and traffic jam adversely affects travel time of ambulances and other emergency vehicles. These shows interrupt the flow of traffic causing congestion and chaos resulting in time wastage of motorists," it adds.
  
  
  There have been reports of traffic chaos whenever there is a large road show by politicians due to the failure on part of the local authorities to effectively divert traffic.
  
  
  SAD cabinet minister Bikram Singh Majithia had led a road show last week and the Congress hopes to run the event for 10 days later this month. Rahul has already begun his party's election push in Uttar Pradesh with a 2,500-km 'Kisan Mahayatra'.
  
  
  Ludhiana-based road safety export Kamaljit Singh Soi echoed Sidhu's concerns. "The roadshows often blatantly violate traffic rules and the authorities turn a blind eye. I wonder if we are waiting for a major tragedy to happen. The road shows are widely publicized on social media and have a huge attendance."
  
  
  Violation of traffic rules
  
  
  Impact on movement of emergency vehicles
  
  
  Interrupt the flow of traffic causing congestion and chaos resulting in time wastage of motorists
  
  
  Encourages youth to disregard traffic rules
  
  
  Economic impact as India is the fourth largest consumer of oil, imports nearly 80% of its crude oil requirement
  
  



  JAIPUR: Traffic bottlenecks on the  flyover will continue this year as the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has failed to finalise the compensation for parties affected by the proposed elevated road between Panchyat Bhawan at Kalwar Road and Ambabari.
  
  
  The civic body had identified nearly 650 houses and shops for demolition to construct the elevated road. The agency had decided to complete the compensation process in August. However, nothing has been done in this regard by the JDA so far. The JDA has not announced the compensation fearing protests, sources said. "We have to examine whether to provide compensation as cash or land to affected house owners. The decision can be taken only after doing an evaluation," said an official source.
  
  
  To construct the elevated road, 578 permanent structures, including shops and houses, 90 'kuchha' structures and two bus stops will have to be demolished. "As per the recent survey, the JDA wioll require 52,349 sq m of land near the flyover. At present, the JDA only has 28,700 sq m of land," added the source. The length of the proposed elevated road will be 2.4km and its width 11.50 metres. The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 166 crore, a JDA official said.
  
  
  At present, the smaller flyover is creating bottlenecks. The elevated road is the only possible solution. Once the road is constructed, the existing elevated road at Jhotwara railway overbridge will be opened for one-way traffic.
  
  
  Currently, there's two-way traffic on the stretch. Traffic on the flyover has increased after new colonies came up in nearby areas.
  
  
  In the recent past, JDA's attempt to reduce the traffic in the area has failed. "Earlier, the proposal to open the  below the flyover was rejected by the railways. Similarly, the  had also refused to give land for expansion of the bridge," the official said.
  
  



  PUNE: The traffic junction outside , Pune (CoEP), was at the centre of a major traffic jam on Monday evening, with people stuck on  Road, about a kilometre away, for nearly two hours.
  
  
  The culprit appears to be the ongoing work near the pillars of the flyover at this junction, slated for inauguration in two days.
  
  
  Traffic officials said the jams will continue here till the new flyover is opened to the public.
  
  
  The 3.1 kilometre stretch from Garware chowk, at the beginning of FC Road, towards the Shivajinagar flyover on Ganeshkhind Road and onwards to CoEP on the old  was a "mess", as traffic deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Pravin Mundhe put it, on Monday evening. The jam, which began around 5.45pm, continued till around 8.15pm.
  
  
  Even Google Maps, with updated traffic-based routes, showed the estimated time to go from Garware chowk to CoEP chowk as 40 minutes.
  
  
  Traffic on all roads converging at CoEP suffered a similar fate as well, the official said.
  
  
  "The stretch from CID office and RTO was also jammed, as was the stretch towards Maldhakka chowk," he said.
  
  
  Explaining the root of the problem, Mundhe told TOI: "Work on the last two pillars of the flyover across CoEP chowk at Ganeshkhind is still on, and the scaffolding there is choking the roads at the chowk, causing a major blockade."
  
  
  "The sudden rain on Sunday and Monday afternoon made matters worse. However, there is no major waterlogging that caused any problems," Mundhe said.
  
  
  There is no immediate end in sight to the traffic woes. "Work on the flyover will continue until its inauguration on Wednesday. Similar traffic issues will be seen on this stretch for the next two days too," he said.
  
  
  According to the DCP, the traffic police did consider diverting the traffic through Chatushrungi towards Range Hills Road. "But motorists who wish to take a particular route for their own reasons do not comply and instead, add to the chaos," he said.
  
  
  Rules were openly being flouted as irate motorists made a dash for freedom whenever even the smallest opening presented itself.
  
  
  Many were spotted riding their two-wheelers on footpaths to escape the stationary traffic.
  
  
  However, with the entire road jammed, these tactics did little to free them from the blockade.
  
  
  "There was also waterlogging outside the gate of Fergusson College, which slowed down the traffic movement further. It took 20 minutes to just cross a stretch of 300m," said a commuter who was stuck on FC Road around 6.45pm.
  
  



  NOIDA: The  traffic police have issued an advisory for diversions around Noida Stadium and parking instructions for  at Noida Stadium and Sector 12 via the 'UP police traffic ', which was launched on Monday.
  
  
  According to the advisory, the roads on all the four directions of the Noida Stadium and Government Primary School, where the Ravana effigy will be burned, will remain closed and alternative routes have been suggested.
  
  
  Those travelling from sectors 12-22-56 T-point towards Delhi via Noida Stadium will not be able to go towards their destination via the Noida Stadium route. They will have to take the  via sectors 8-10-11-12 intersection, move to Swani Furniture, Sector 10 and Naya Baans before making their way out.
  
  
  Similar instructions have been issued for those travelling from near Metro Hospital, towards the Sector 12-12 intersection. They will also have to go via Swani Furniture and Naya Baans. Similarly, commuters using the Sector 10-21 intersection, who want to travel towards the Noida Stadium will not be able to use the direct road. They will also have to take the longer route via Vyapar Marg.
  
  
  Those coming from Swani Furniture and wanting to go towards Nithari, City Centre, etc will have to go via Sector 12/22/56 intersection, take a right for moving towards Sector 57 intersection, from where they can reach their destination.
  
  
  Commuters who want to go towards the Sector 12/22 intersection via the NTPC Chowk, Sector 33, will have to take a right and move towards the Sector 57 route. Alternatively, they can move towards their destination via the Gijhor Chowk, Sector 53.
  
  
  Only those carrying passes will be allowed inside the Stadium from Gate No. 5. They will be able to enter Gate No. 5 of the Stadium via Somerville School T-point and Adobe Chowk.
  
  
  The advisory was issued in the 'traffic advisories' section of the "UP Traffic Police App", which is available on Google Play Store for free. As soon as one downloads the app, one of asked to "login" and "register" and under the sections, one has to fill in the some details like name, gender, city , etc and also put in mobile number.
  
  
  A one-time-password helps the user to finally open the app. The advisory issued on Monday also directs one to a map attached, which shows the points where the roads are closed.
  
  
  



  GURGAON: Nearly 15 months after the crime, a key suspect has been arrested in connection with the  shooting case. Police said the accused, Bishambar, is a  as he was the one who had smuggled arms and hired shooters to eliminate gangster Rakesh Hayatpur.
  
  
  Bishambar was nabbed, along with one of his aides, Pramod, a Faridabad resident, from Sector 56 on Sunday night, following a tip-off from his recently arrested accomplice. Two pistols, two country-made revolvers and ammunition have been recovered from their possession. With the three arrests, cops claimed to have prevented another shooting that was being planned.
  
  
  In fact, the first arrest came on Saturday night, when cops received information that one of Bishambar's aides is hiding in Sohna area. A police team raided Khedla village and nabbed Surender alias Sunnu, a resident of Abhaypur village. An illegal firearm and a few cartridges were recovered from his possession. He has been booked under sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Sohna police station and was taken into police remand.
  
  
  During interrogation, he revealed that he worked with gangster Bishambar and that he was currently gathering weapons as  and another gangster, Ashok Rathi, are planning to kill a man, named Ilyas, a resident of Dhunela in Gurgaon. Incidentally, Rathi is currently lodged in jail and has been recently booked for plotting his wife's murder. Acting on the information, cops arrested Bishambar and Pramod on Sunday night from Gurgaon's Sector 56 area.
  
  
  "Bishambar holds the key to the shooters and therefore this a major arrest in the case. Also, he was conspiring another murder and had hired Surender and Pramod for the same. That too has now been foiled," said DCP (crime) Sumit Kumar.
  
  
  Bishambar was declared a proclaimed offender after his involvement was established in the shooting that took place on July 15, 2015. He hails from village Baliawas in Gurgaon.
  
  
  On July 15 last year, four to five shooters came in a Santro car (UP 14 AA 6397), and started firing at Rakesh as soon as he came out of house number 805 in Beverly Park l Society around 9 am. Hayatpur, who was shot over a property dispute, had escaped the attack, but his driver got injured.
  
  
  Three police teams were formed and cops had set themselves a deadline of 48 hours to solve the case, yet it took them 15 months to make this arrest, and there are more suspects who are still absconding.
  
  
  



  Navi Mumbai: There has been an increase in the number of people who have been killed or injured in  on  from  to , when compared to the same period last year.
  
  
  However, figures from the traffic department show that in both years there were more accidents on the highway in the dry months (January-May) than in the the monsoon months (June-September). Although the wet period accounts for one less month, the difference in the toll in both categoriesdeaths and injuriesis significant (see box).
  
  
  "The pattern of  and injuries suggest that while potholes during the monsoon months lead to accidents on stretches where the road's condition has deteriorated, speed could be the other reason for mishaps during the dry months,'' said DCP (traffic) Arvind Salve.
  
  
  This year, the rainy months saw a rather steady graph of fatal accidents with three deaths each in June and August and two in July.
  
  
  September saw a jump in accidents with four deaths and seven cases of serious injuries. The focus is now on to find out the stretches of the highway where most of the accidents took place during the rainy months.
  
  
  The highway has been in news for the wrong reasons as the PWD has blamed the concessionaire, SPTPL for shirking away from maintenance of the key road.
  
  
  After the PWD deployed units of men and machinery for repair, SPTPL complied and issued a statement saying it had come up with a plan for the timely maintenance of the highway.
  
  
  



  Navi Mumbai: Ghansoli residents will have to wait a bit longer to get their battered roads fixed, as the extended monsoon has delayed the asphalting work.
  
  
  According to  sources, carrying out asphalting work right after monsoon isn't very feasible. Since the process of handing over the node from Cidco to NMMC is in its final stages, the civic body is hopeful of taking over the township in a month.
  
  
  This will allow the civic body to chart out a long-term plan for the nodes's infrastructure development.
  
  
  City engineer, NMMC,  said, "It's not viable to execute the asphalting work immediately after the rains. The road surface is too slushy and uneven to hold the asphalt layer. Once the ground is dry, the work will be better. Meanwhile, the pothole filling work is being carried out on a temporary arrangement and will continue till the monsoon is over. "
  
  
  "We are in serious talks with Cidco officials for taking charge of the node and the process will take barely a month's time. We are facing the public's anger for delay in the handover process," an NMMC official said.
  
  
  Ghansoli is the only node in NMMC's jurisdiction which is still under Cidco. Being a developing node, Cidco is yet to hand over the ownership to the civic body.
  
  
  In this dispute, residents have been deprived of basic civic amenities unlike the neighbouring nodes.
  
  
  "We are left to live in the dream of having basic facilities, but both the agencies are busy passing the buck. We have no proper roads, streetlights or even drainage system," said Anand Patil, a resident.
  
  
  NMMC has been contemplating developing the node on the lines of 's sector 15. "We are in the process of drawing the blueprint for an integrated infrastructure development with special budgetary allocations to be done in the next financial year. " Dagaonkar said.
  
  
  



  GURGAON: Fifteen months later, cops have managed to arrest the key aide in  case. The accused was nabbed after his recently arrested accomplice gave information to cops. A night domination exercise was conducted in the district and cops arrested Bishambar- the man who had smuggled arms for the shootout.
  
  
  Bishambar alias Pahalwan was declared proclaimed offender after his involvement was established in the shootout that took place on July 15, 2015. He hails from village Baliawas in Gurgaon. He was arrested on Saturday night from Gurgaon's sector 56 area with his accomplice Pramod, a Faridabad resident. Cops recovered a 9mm and a 30mm pistol and cartridges from , while Pramod was carrying two country made revolvers and cartridges.
  
  
  On July 15 last year. three people were shot at and one died during the attack on gangster . Four to five shooters came in a Santro car ( UP 14 AA 6397), and started shooting at Rakesh as soon as he came out of house number 805 in  l society at 9 am. Hayatpur was on his way to the court and had come out of his society when shooters fired at his Santa Fe car (HR 26 CL 3614).
  
  
  Rakesh Hayatpur was shot due to a personal enmity over a property dispute. Ironically, he escaped the attack but his driver got injured and lost control. He rammed into a car. The SUV then climbed up the central verge, flew into the air before landing on an auto-rickshaw on the opposite carriageway driver. Two auto drivers were also shot in the firing and one of them lost his life.
  
  



  VARANASI: At least six persons, including three women, were killed and four others got  when the  in which they were travelling fell down from a damaged  over the  in Nonahara area in  district on Sunday night.
  
  
  According to reports, about 10 persons, natives of Badhaipur in Mohammadabad area of Ghazipur district, along with a snake bite victim were going to Sati Mai temple of Amva in Badesar area in the car. While passing through Nonahara area the vehicle fell from the bridge, which was damaged during floods on September 29. The vehicular movement through the bridge was restricted since then.
  
  
  According to eyewitnesses, the local residents tried to stop the speeding vehicle, but the driver ignored their warning and moved towards the bridge. Immediately the vehicle fell into the river killing six persons on the spot.
  
  
  The villagers immediately informed the police and rushed to the spot to rescue the injured persons. The police reached there after getting information, and sent the injured persons to the district hospital.
  
  



  KOLHAPUR: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) along with ST premi (lovers) organisation will host ST Vishwa, an exhibition on wheels showcasing the history of the state transport department at  between 9am and 6pm on October 13.
  
  
  The exhibition will unfold MSRTC's journey from  (1948) to  (2016) and will travel through the state after starting in Kolhapur. Showcasing the different models of ST buses, its history, various schemes for passengers and past experiences, the audience will experience the transformation of the department since its inception. tnn
  
  
  ST premi members have been organising exhibitions for promotion of ST buses for safe and secure travelling. The association has paved the way for exhibition on wheels.
  
  
  The public transport is now facing a tough competition from private tour buses, thereby suffering losses. In an appeal to commuters to stay connected with ST buses, organisers are hoping that the exhibition helps steer that move.
  
  
  The ST premi(lovers) organisation and Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation(MSRTC) have jointly organised ST Vishwa a exhibition on wheels to showcase the history of state transport department on 13th October at Central Bus Stand(CBS) between 9am to 6 pm.
  
  
  State transport buses are the lifeline of rural Maharashtra. The ST buses have played the importance role in education in rural part of Maharashtra. ST buses still dominate the rural commuting. The MSRTCs fleet consist of around 16,000 buses and 70 lakh daily commuters.
  
  
  As per media circular the exhibition unfold the story Of MSRTC. The journey from Bedford (1948) to Ashwamedh (2016) is the theme of the exhibition. The on wheel exhibition will travel to whole state after the Kolhapur. The exhibition showcases the different models of ST buses, history id ST, various schemes for passengers and their experiences. The common people experience the transformation of department since its inception.
  
  
  According to media circular, members of the ST premi organisation have been organising the such exhibitions for promotion of ST buses for safe and secure travelling. The MSRTC lauded their efforts and promised the help to exhibitors. The association paved the way for exhibition on wheels. The ST bus will travel to whole state after the inauguration in Kolhapur.
  
  
  The Public transport has been stiff competition from private tours and travels. The MSRTC has been suffering losses. The passengers are shifting to other modes of transport. On the background this the exhibition could play important. It is move to appeal the travellers to stay connected with ST buses.
  
  



  BENGALURU: Three persons were killed in three different accidents in the city since Saturday night.
  
  
  Satyanarayan, 60, a retired employee of NGF and resident of Duvasipalya, was killed on the spot after he was hit by a truck on  around 10pm on Saturday.
  
  
  Satyanarayan was heading home on his motorbike when a truck tried to overtake him but ended up hitting the two-wheeler. Truck driver Suzi tried to flee but passersby caught him and thrashed him before handing over to Kengeri police.
  
  
  Cab mows down pedestrian
  
  
  A 55-year-old pedestrian was mowed down by a cab near  flyover on Sunday early morning. The deceased is Nagegowda. Cab driver Vishwanath has been taken into custody. A case has been registered at Chikkajala police station.
  
  
  23-year-old rider dies
  
  
  Shakti, 23, a resident of , was killed after an unidentified vehicle hit his motorcycle, before speeding away on Richards Park Road on Sunday morning. Shakti died on the spot. A case has been registered at Pulikeshinagar traffic police station.
  
  
  



  KOCHI: The earnings of Kerala State Road Transportation Corporation (KSRTC)'s Ernakulam bus depot dipped this year during Onam due to last minute trip cancellations to Bengaluru over the Cauvery water-sharing dispute between  and .
  
  KSRTC officials in Ernakulam said the average revenue collection during Onam week stood at Rs 14 lakhday , compared to Rs 17 lakh the previous year. However, this is still higher than KSRTC's earning on other days of the year that stood at nearly Rs 10 lakhday .
  
  
  Officials said that the de creased revenue is because they were not in a position to run services in an unsafe environment that saw violence and stone-pelting incidents.As a result the passenger traffic during Onam fell sharply ."All seats in the three services from Ernakulam to Bengaluru were booked when the Cauvery water dispute came up. All the three services were cancelled immediately for two days. Ticket fare had to be refunded to passengers," said controlling inspector at KSRTC Ernakulam bus depot A T Shibu.
  
  
  The cancelled services to Bengaluru include one multi-axle bus and two deluxe buses. According to official estimates, a single trip to Bengaluru in a multi-axle bus nets KSRTC nearly 58,000. If it is a deluxe bus, the revenue is estimated to be 23,000 (approx). Totalling the number of trips to Bengaluru and passenger bookings, the loss is estimated at around 1lakhday . This, however, varies as the ticket rate differs from time to time.
  
  
  In addition to this, several long-distance trips to Mangaluru, Tirupur, Kanyakumari and Madurai did not see much passenger traffic, which was expected due to situation at that time. It further lowered the revenue graph.
  
  
  "The major revenue earning routes were Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram.There are as many as 13 trips to Thiruvananthapuram from Ernakulam depot each day . For Kozhikode, the number was eight," Shibu said.
  
  
  There are 132 bus services from the Ernakulam bus depot. Of this, 35 buses are assigned for service on longdistance routes.
  
  



  JAIPUR: The  is planning to introduce  that will pick up and drop  on , in . The idea which is in at preliminarystage is aimed at reducing traffic congestion while generating employment opportunities.
  
  
  Formalizing the draft policy to regulate private taxi aggregators, the department had also considered to cover bike taxi services which are gaining ground in metro cities. The proposed policy 'Rajasthan On-Demand Information Technology Based Transportation Aggregators' has been kept open ended for the inclusion of such services in near future.
  
  
  To view its feasibility, services will be launched from selected areas as pilot project. According to the officials, with constant traffic congestion in the city, bike taxis will prove helpful for ferrying a single person.
  
  
  "As of now it is just a concept and we are looking forward on ways to implement it. If all goes well, bike taxi in Jaipur will soon be a reality," said Shailendra Agarwal, principal secretary and transport commissioner. He added, "This will reduce congestion on roads and will provide jobs to those who want to be in it full time".
  
  
  The department has been looking for an alternate mode of transport that is economical and fast for passengers travelling on along. Officials claim that many people come to the city for a day and often travel from one office to another. However, abrupt pricing mechanism of app-based cabs and high fares of autos make a dent in their pockets. Bike taxis will provide them with an option to commute without incurring much cost. The idea is also to rope in common man who owns bikes but doesn't want to make bike taxi as his living. One of the private players launched such service in Jaipur in August. Starting with 30 bikes, the company has targeted to introduce nearly 2,000 bikes on road in the coming days. Services are available at base fair of Rs 20 and a person is charged Rs 5 per kilometer subsequently.
  
  
  



  
  BENGALURU: Two years after the House committee of legislators was set up to probe irregularities in the NICE project, the committee is set to indict the  from South Bidar and co-promoter Ashok Kheny, for violating the laws of the land.
  
  
  As part of their comprehensive report, the committee will be asking the government to take back 799 acres of prime land along the entire peripheral ring road constructed by NICE between Electronics City and Tumakuru Road.
  
  
  Sources within the committee said the report is almost ready, with the final draft to be approved by the members of the House panel and signed.
  
  
  Law minister and committee chairperson TB Jayachandra is expected to submit the report to assembly Speaker KB Koliwad in the next two weeks. The indictment of Kheny and NICE of irregularities is likely to be unanimous, with all 11 members affirming the supposed wrongdoings.
  
  
  Reacting to the submission of the report and the likelihood of his indictment by the House panel, Kheny said: "I do not wish to comment. I don't know about the report", and abruptly disconnected the call.
  
  
  Apart from Kheny and NICE, the panel is also likely to name former chief secretaries, KIADB officials, revenue department officials and mining department officers who are said to have "connived" with NICE to cause huge losses to the state exchequer.
  
  
  Sources on the committee said the panel has recommended the recovery of 799 acres of land by KIADB, citing it was beyond the scope of operations of NICE.
  
  
  "NICE was given the project to construct the Bangalore-Mysore Infrastructure Corridor and develop the townships of Ramanagara, Channapatna, Bidadi and Hoskote. The huge tract of land on either side of the stretch of Electronics City and Tumakuru Road was not part of the project. But Kheny and NICE have used it as an option to acquire these lands, divide them into real estate parcels and sold them to prominent developers," said an MLA on the panel.
  
  
  It is said the total land value of these 799 acres is in excess of Rs 2,500 crore. The minimum value of one acre of land is no less than Rs 3 crore, along the entire stretch.
  
  
  According to another MLA who is on the panel, the report will also dwell into illegal mining of minor minerals along the NICE stretch and speak of various other revenue department losses.
  
  
  "We will be bringing all officials to book. While it is yet to be decided whether to name these officials individually or by designation only, the final report will speak in detail on the connivance and involvement of government officers, without whom Kheny and NICE could not have caused such a huge loss to the state," said another MLA.
  
  
  Panel members claim NICE is likely to be the biggest landed company in the country with 17,000 acres under its control.
  
  
  
  



  Drenched in devotion, a group of Gurgaonwallahs are watching Ahalya, who has been cursed by her husband, Gautam Maharishi, for infidelity, being liberated from her curse by Ram. The scene ends and the audience shout in a chorus, "Siyavar Ramchandra ki jai." But drum beats coming from the far end of the arena catch their attention, and they see a group of youngsters dressed in black shouting, "Dekho dekho, natak dekho."
  
  Recently, at Bhim Nagar, the audience got to watch both the  and a nukkad natak on the same stage. This Navaratra, Gurgaonwallahs at a few other Ramlila venues also got to see similar plays by college students. The plays, conducted by the  Organisation in collaboration with the Gurgaon Police, were meant to educate people about road safety.
  
  
  Before the play began, the students, who were from Amity University's dramatics society Ek Awaaz, met the Ramlila actors and told them about their theme and even played out small impromptu acts with them on the road. Pankaj Pahuja, a businessman who plays Lakshman in Ramlilas, said, "The traffic signal is the Lakshman rekha on the road, and as we have learnt from the Ramayan, every time someone oversteps that rekha, they invite trouble." Vardan Manchanda, a school student who plays  in Ramlilas, says, "Raavan mein bahut ego tha, and that was the reason behind his destruction. In Gurgaon also, we see that people have ego when they get behind the steering wheel. Don't be like Raavan on the road, follow traffic rules."
  
  
  Students perform their road safety-themed nukkad natak during a Ramlila performance in Bhim Nagar
  
  
  
  When the play went beyond 15 minutes, the Ramlila organisers started getting a little jittery, but the audience seemed to enjoy the show. "Ramlila toh har saal dekhte hain, par yeh toh naya concept hai. Bada maza aaya," said Santoshi Yadav, an audience member. The Road Safety Officers (RSOs) were delighted with the success of their initiative. "I am happy that everything went according to plan. The audience was able to get the message that we were trying to spread," said Neeraj Diwan, a senior RSO.
  
  
  READ ALSO:
  
  
  
  
  "Gurgaonwallahs take pride in breaking traffic rules. Our committee decided to accept this experiment because we wanted to do our bit for road safety," said Ved Prakash Verma, president, Shri Krishna Mandir Ramlila Committee, Bhim Nagar. The college students, too, were elated with the reception they got. Ujjwal Goel, the co-director of the play, said, "Performing in a space that has a spiritual and mythological feel was a different experience. The audience was able to get the nuances and laughed a lot at the punchlines."
  
  
  



  CHENNAI:A resident of  filed a  against those who operated an  that damaged a  near his house. It has damaged the reflectors as well as the top layer of the road.
  
  
  The JJ Nagar police inspector has apprehended the heavy vehicle's driver and let him off with a warning. P Balaji, who filed the complaint, first noticed the vehicle ruining the top layer of the EB road in Mogappair on October 4.
  
  
  "The vehicle is not registered under TN Motor Vehicle Act 1988 for using the road. When I asked the driver, he said he is a contractor of the Corporation," said Balaji. Despite a police complaint, the driver once again operated the vehicle on Saturday night.
  
  
  "The driver admitted his mistake and we also took it in writing from his supervisor," he said.
  
  
  The area engineer of ward 92 also assessed the situation. "Corporation thinks that its duty ends with laying roads. Residents must stay vigil to ensure that roads are not damaged by such unscrupulous elements," Balaji said.
  
  



  VELLORE: Two persons, including a woman, were killed wheh the  they were traveling on was knocked down by a private bus at  near  on Sunday.
  
  
  The victims were identified as Chinnathambi, 35, of Telugumatrapalli village and his relative Ariyamma, 30, of Komalipatti village. Chinnathambi was riding the bike with Ariyamma on the pillion. When they were passing through Sarangapalli Junction, the bus bound to Ambur from Krishnagiri knocked the down.
  
  
  Following the accident, villagers and kin of the victims damaged the bus and squatted on the road for 30 minutes demanding action against the bus crew. After the police assured action against the driver, the protestors dispersed. The bodies of the victims shifted to the Government Hospital at Tirupattur for post-mortem.
  
  

 CHANDIGARH: Alleging delay in the procurement of paddy, farmers on Saturday blocked national highway-65 (NH-65) connecting Chandigarh-Hisar at Kaithal. The farmers opened the blockade after one hour only when the officers assured them to start paddy soon. On the other hand, the government has stated that the arrival of paddy in the mandis of Haryana is fast picking up as 14,71,963 tonnes of paddy have arrived so far whereas 10,92,084 tonnes had arrived during the corresponding period in 2015.While the government procurement agencies have purchased 14,55,779 tonnes of paddy, the millers and dealers have purchased 16,184 tonnes. Referring to arrival of paddy in the mandis of different districts, a spokesperson of state food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department said 4,81,112 tonnes had arrived in Kurukshetra, 3,37,670 tonnes in Karnal, 2,42,352 tonnes in Kaithal, 2,20,612 tonnes in Ambala, 1,01,404 tonnes in Yamunanagar, 39,115 tonnes in Panchkula, 21,528 tonnes in Jind, 15,450 tonnes in Fatehabad, 9,144 tonnes in Rohtak, 2,470 tonnes in Sonipat, 748 tonnes in Palwal and 358 tonnes in Hisar. He said 7,740 tonnes of bajra had arrived in the mandis as compared to 2,579 tonnes during the corresponding period last year.

  KOLHAPUR: The ministry of environment and forests has finally given the green signal for a new road connecting Kolhapur and Sindhudrug districts in state, which can be a travel route to go to Goa.
  
  
  The construction of the  stretch is expected to start soon. Passing through  route, the new road will cut the travel distance between the two districts by 30km compared to the other stretches passing through the Western Ghats.
  
  
  At present, there are three roads that connect Kolhapur with Sindhudurg. These are regularly used by tourists and transporters to reach Goa and Konkan region. The first route passes through the Amboli ghat and those used by tourists from outside Kolhapur are Fonda ghat and Karul ghat. The new route will help in reaching Malvan, Kudal and Vengurla talukas in Sindhudurg district sooner.
  
  
  Kolhapur Member of  said, "The proposal of connecting Kolhapur and Sindhudurg districts via Gargoti-Shivdav-Sonawade-Gotage-Pandur-Kudal-Math was pending from more than 40 years. The PWD had initiated the work but permission was needed from the forest department as the road passes through dense forest of the Western Ghats. The proposal was pending with the  and has been given clearance recently."
  
  
  "This road will connect Kolhapur and Tal-Konkan area and will boost tourism in Kolhapur district, especially in Bhudargad and Radhanagari talukas. Both talukas will benefit through the construction of the road and the business activities from these regions will increase after the traffic begins," he said.
  
  
  Mahadik had raised the issue about the pending work on this road in the  on July 23, 2014. Then, state public works minister Chandrakant Patil conducted meetings of the government officers concerned and pressed for the proposal. Following this, the MOEF gave its no-objection certificate to the project," he said.
  
  
  The Dehradun-based  (WII) had conducted the survey of the route and had cleared the proposal for construction of a ghat road connecting Shivdav and Sonawade. As per the institute's proposal, construction of three bridges on the route will avoid obstruction to animal passage in the forest area.
  
  
  



  AURANGABAD: Land acquisition has always been a big hurdle in the execution of various civic amenity projects for the  Municipal Corporation. But in the recent past, the municipal authorities have successfully acquired land on two different locations paving way for the construction of long pending roads. One of the biggest acquisitions was when the officials managed to get private land from eleven property owners to construct 18 meter wide roads around .
  
  
  Interestingly, since  Bokoria took charge of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation in February 2016, the civic bodyhas managed to successfully acquire land at three locations, giving the projects a much needed push.
  
  
  A portion of land owned by Railways was causing a hurdle in the road widening project between Krantichowk and Railway station road. The project was pending for more than three years, but  recently settled the matter with the Railways and acquired the land. On a stretch between Baba patrol pump and railway station, the municipal authorities have also managed to acquire two private properties in order to widen the road. In the past few months, the municipal authorities have convinced as many as eleven property owners near Katkat Gate to give up their property.
  
  
  However, more than 60 projects are still in line only because the civic body has been delaying the process of land acquisition. A road connecting Champa Chowk to Jalna Road is pending for the last three to four years as the municipal authorities are struggling to acquire private land in the area. Road projects at Mill Corner, Roshan Gate, Rangar Galli, Machhali Khadak and Barabhai Tazia among others are also pending on similar grounds.
  
  
  When asked to elaborate on reasons for the delay, deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Nikam told TOI on Saturday that there are various issues involved in it. "Land acquisition is a tough job. In many cases, the property owners have challenged the process in court of law while in other cases the affected persons are not responding in a proper manner. Besides, paucity of funds is also playing a negative role in this matter. The civic body lacks funds required to acquire the properties," he said.
  
  
  As per rough estimates, the municipal body needs funds to the tune of Rs 200 crore to acquire all the affected properties.
  
  
  However, sources said that the lack of strong desire to get past the hurdles among civic authorities is causing a delay. "They can acquire lands in various ways. If the authorities cannot afford to pay compensation, they may convince the occupants to go for a  (transfer of development rights) or offer them increased floor space index (FSI)," said sources.
  
  
  It is important to note that Bakoria recentlyasked the town planning department officers to make the propertyowners aware of government guidelines wherein they are being offered compensation as per the new norms.
  
  
  



  UDUPI: To bring together diverse groups of oppressed people, a six-day event , Chalo Udupi, reached Udupi on Friday. On Saturday, the procession started from Ambedkar Bhavan, Udupi to the home of , a local BJP leader beaten to death allegedly by Hindu activists for transporting cattle at Karjike in Udupi district.
  
  
  BR Bhaskar Prasad, member of the Dalit-Damanitara Swabhimani Horata Samiti, said, "One of the main objectives of the Chalo Udupi campaign is to demand justice for Praveen. We planned a rally to Karjike to extend our support to Praveen's family. This incident is not limited to Praveen. Hindu outfits earlier targeted Muslims, then Dalits and now backward class people. A political issue has been made religious and caste-based. It was a planned murder. Our democracy gives equal right to life and no one can take away this right. No one has the right to kill, for whatever reason."
  
  
  During the meeting, Praveen's mother Baby said, "We have cattle at home and value it. Those who killed my son are not animal lovers. In the name of cattle protection, they showed rowdyism. He was the bread-winner of the family."
  
  
  Chalo Udupi leaders urged Praveen's family to attend the valedictory ceremony.
  
  
  "It's not a problem of one person; such injustice is happening across the nation. We should raise our voice; it's our responsibility to take a stand for such people. In the name of religion, the society is divided and that's a threat to our country. The youth are misleading people with violent thoughts," said Akhila.
  
  
  Chalo Udupi started on October 4 from Bengaluru and it'll end with a public meeting and procession on October 9.
  
  
  The procession will begin from Martyr's Memorial at Ajjarkad, pass through Jodu Katte, Court Road, Kavi Muddana Road, Service Bus Stand, BSNL Road, Chittaranjan Circle, Mitra Hospital Road, Fish Market Road, Volakadu School Road and end at the  Bayalu Ranga Mandira.
  
  
  More than 20,000 people are expected to participate. A cultural function has been organized at Bayalu Ranga Mandira at Beedinagudde. Jambe Jalak, music from instruments made with animal skin, a women's team from Mandya will present Nagaari, and Chalo re chal Bathi, a street play will also be performed.
  
  
  During the six-day camp, 10 songs on Chalo Udupi have been composed. Traditional dalits songs will also be performed on stage.
  
  
  



  PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The  (DCB) and police have agreed to implement a number of measures to prevent traffic congestion at the main bazaar.
  
  
  Odd-even parking, removing encroachments from roads, banning heavy vehicles from loading and unloading goods during peak morning and evening hours and setting up of more parking lots are some of the measures that would be implemented.
  
  
  Dehu Road main bazaar is one of the biggest markets in Maval taluka and people come here not only from the cantonment but also from surrounding villages to purchase clothes, groceries, jewellery and other goods.
  
  
  It is sandwiched between Dehu Road railway station and  highway and traffic congestion is a daily occurrence here.
  
  
  Footpaths have been encroached upon by vendors who use the space to display goods. Handcarts and hawkers also occupy the road near footpaths. Vehicles of shopkeepers, their employees as well as those of customers are parked along both sides of the roads, leaving barely any space for other vehicles to pass.
  
  
  As a result, even ambulances or fire engines have a tough time passing through the main bazaar during peak hours. Frustrated with this situation, citizens raised the demand that traffic police and the cantonment must take joint action to reduce the congestion.
  
  
  Arun More, senior inspector of Dehu Road police station, said, "The cantonment and police need to take joint action to discipline traffic in the main bazaar. First of all, we need to start odd-even days of parking to de-congest roads. We will provide adequate police bandobast to the cantonment for removing encroachments on roads. We will also station traffic police on main roads in the bazaar area to discipline vehicular traffic and tow away vehicles that violate traffic rules."
  
  
  BJP member Vishal Khandelwal said traders from the main bazaar will not support the banning of heavy vehicles during peak hours as porters are not available early in the morning to load and unload goods. He said he will need time to convince people.
  
  
  Aruna Pinjan, vice-president of the cantonment board, said elected members and cantonment officials visited the main bazaar and adjacent areas to study the traffic congestion and finds ways to reduce it. "We want people to park their vehicles at parking lots to be created outside the bazaar areas and then go walking into the bazaar. This will reduce the traffic congestion to a large extent," he said.
  
  
  Congress elected member Gopal Tantarpale suggested that the Cantonment must create a big parking lot on the open ground of MB Camp school near Hotel Savana on Pune-Mumbai highway. Vehicles coming from the highway towards the main bazaar for shopping must be told to park at this parking lot. Vehicles coming from Vikasnagar/ Shitalanagar or Kiwale to  must also be parked at this place.
  
  
  Tantarpale also suggested shifting of drainage lines and and bus stops.
  
  
  Speaking to TOI, Abhijit Sanap, chief executive officer of the board said, "In the first step towards de-congesting the main bazaar, the Cantonment will start a drive to remove encroachments on the roads after the end of Navaratra festival. We propose to provide parking lots for vehicles outside the main bazaar to reduce traffic congestion."
  
  
  Box: Proposed parking lots
  
  
  The space at DCB-run Mahatma Gandhi school in bazaar
  
  
  Open space near Nehru Mangal Karyalaya
  
  
  Open space near Porter chawl
  
  
  Open space near quarters in Cantonment-run  hospital premises located along the highway for heavy vehicles.
  
  



  Lucknow: The festive rush over the weekend coupled with the ongoing preparations for Bahujan  (BSP) rally on October 9 caused city to stand still at Matiyari trisection on Saturday evening. The influx of people coming from Faizabad to participate in the BSP rally lead to a cascading effect on Polytechnic crossing, Ring Road and Indiranagar.
  
  
  "There were scores of buses lined up on both sides of the Matiyari trisection, which lead to a jam," said Aman Singh, who was stuck for two hours in a bus at the Matiyari trisection as he was going to his village in Ayodhaya for Dusshera.
  
  
  "There was no traffic police, especially on Polytechnic crossing. Commuters were coming in from all sides, which only made the situation worse." said Anjali Singh, a student who was returning to her home in Indiranagar.
  
  
  For Vikas Shukla, who was visiting Durga puja pandals in he city, said, "It was so irritating, some  were parked on roadside leading to a massive snarl on Munshipulia crossing."
  
  
  "It was a choc-a-block situation on Ring road, Khurramnagar crossing and Picnic Spot Road. There was no one to regulate the movement of traffic," said Akash Chandra, who had gone out to watch movie.
  
  
  An ambulance was also seen stuck on Polytechnic crossing. Circle Officer, traffic, Rajesh Tewari said "Owing to the influx of BSP workers, traffic was held up in a few areas but we had deployed policemen who regulated the flow of traffic."
  
  



  MUMBAI: Even though this weekend is long due to festivals, almost all tourist destinations along the  have recorded an average occupancy of up to 70% only. The reason: an increasing number of  seem averse to driving to Konkan because of the bad condition of the  and the recent bridge collapse on the route.
  
  
  Tourism officials said since it has been raining through the week people didn't want to take the risk of driving.
  
  
  Destinations such as , , ,  etc, which see full occupancies during long weekends, have received fewer tourists this weekend.  is the only exception, as it has received more tourists.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the Bhandardara and Malshej roads have been closed for repairs due to risks of landsliding owing to heavy rains over the past couple of weeks.
  
  
  Private tour operators, however, blamed it on the exam season. A senior tourism department official said improving road conditions is the key to boost tourism. Over 1,700 motorists recently complained to the CM and PM about bad condition of roads and delays in repair works.
  
  
  



  Navi Mumbai: Despite the long-drawn  that damaged , the slow-moving traffic on the potholed road during the rainy months led to fewer injuries. But the death count has come down only by one.
  
  
  DCP (Traffic), Arvind Salve said, "We are studying the pattern of deaths on different stretches of highway.''
  
  
  While 12 died in accidents from June-September this year, 13 had died last year. The highway developed  during the rainy months in both years. But this year, with some 1000mm more rainfall, the pothole count increased.
  
  
  Senior inspector (Turbhe traffic unit), S K Shinde said, "Accidents happen when a vehicle stops or slows down suddenly while negotiating potholes and gets rammed by the vehicle coming from behind. They do cause injuries.''
  
  
  Panvel resident Ritesh Gaikwad said he was just behind an elderly biker when he fell while negotiating potholes near Kharghar flyover on August 4 and had to help him out.
  
  
  A traffic department source said, "Deaths and mishaps have been less during the rainy months but bad roads have led to snarls.''
  
  
  The Turbhe, Nerul and Belapur areas were worst hit. The stretch from Turbhe flyover to L P junction is a problematic area. PWD and the concessionaire, SPTPL, have deployed mobile units to repair the road.
  
  
  Currently, with the rains receding, permanent repair works will be undertaken on the tarred stretches of the highway in the city.
  
  
  The PWD has decided to do permanent repair work if SPTPL did not do it and recover the expense from the latter.
  
  
  



  Thane: The Thane police on Saturday carried out a fresh raid on four call centres in Kashimira and Naya Nagar areas of , following information that these business outsourcing process units too were part of an international organised crime cartel conning people in the US and Europe. One person was detained in the .
  
  
  Interestingly, proprietors and employees of these four call centres had downed shutters on their offices sensing they would be next on the radar, as they too would pose as law enforcement officials and threatened citizens in the US and UK, like the call centres raided on Tuesday. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Parag Manere confirmed the development.
  
  
  Information on these rogue call centres was said to have been obtained from employees in the custody of the Thane crime branch, followed by a recce. "We carried out a recce of these call centres on Friday night and raided the call centres on Saturday. But to our surprise there were no staffers and the 24x7  was shut," a police officer said.
  
  
  The team forced its way into the premises and seized around 250 computer terminals from these four call centres. One person was detained police said, adding the team found 100 hard disks had already been removed. "The magnitude of the scam is huge and we are now conducting a thorough surveillance of all such call centres in Thane, Mira Road and Navi Mumbai to end such criminal activities," a senior police officer told TOI.
  
  
  TOI was the first paper to report the police raid and criminal operations at three call centres in Mira Road early this week, which led to the arrest of 70 people and notices being served to 630 others. Police are currently noting statements of the 630 employees, based on which they will determine the further course of action against them.
  
  
  

LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Metro rail Corporation officials would get houses / flats in land allotted to them at the premises of Dr. Sampoornanand Karagar, Prashikshan Sansthan, near Ikchhupuri crossing. The managing director of LMRC, Kumar Keshav performed Bhoomi Poojan at the premises on October 2 along with Daljeet Singh, Director (Works and Infrastructure), Mahendra Kumar, Director (Rolling Stock and Systems), Ajai Kant Rastogi, Director (Finance) and other senior officials of the organisation. The ceremony was performed in connection with the start of construction activities for LMRC officer's colony. After the ceremonial rituals, the contractor, K.S.M. Basir Mohammad and Sons - started civil construction activities at the designated area allotted inside the campus. The contractor is now required to build multi-storied officers colony, separate houses for the managing director, other directors and is also required to carry out the structural, architectural, plumbing, drainage, external development, electrical, mechanical, VAC, fire-fighting, fire detection and other works near Ikchhupuri crossing, VIP Road, Lucknow. Lucknow Metro has awarded this tender to K S M Basir Mohammad and Sons at a cost of Rs 80,93,78,285 (rupees eighty crores ninety three lacs seventy eight thousand two hundred eighty five only) and the contractor is required to complete this job within 30 months with effect from June, 2016.  LMRC has recently also finalised tender of redesigning quarters, structures and residences built in 32 battalion of PAC campus, Kanpur Road. Here the contractor needs to rebuild the same structures, buildings in lesser area as a part of the land has been taken by metro to build the depot. 

  DEHRADUN: Heaps of  were dumped on Kanwali  in Dehradun by  of Indresh Nagar on Saturday in protest against the elected councillor who had allegedly turned a deaf ear to their demand of proper sanitation in the area.
  
  
  They alleged that even after many complaints, the councillor, , did not take any action. The residents decided to wield the broom themselves to "shame the councilor and teach her a lesson".
  
  
  Vipin Chanchal, a resident of Indresh Nagar said, "We are really upset with the inefficiency of the councillor who just refuses to work towards development of the locality. There is no system of cleanliness in our area and garbage is dumped irresponsibly around schools and water tanks. We all are at our wits' end on how to deal with this issue." Talking about the protest carried out by the residents of Indresh Nagar, Nagar Nigam health officer Dr Kailash Guniyal said, "This is not the correct way to protest but we can't stop people from doing it. However, tomorrow I'll personally ensure that the garbage which has been dumped on the road is cleared away."
  
  
  "There is no door-to-door garbage collection and waste is only collected from the lane in which the councillor resides. Because of one person's inefficiency, all the residents have to suffer. There is always garbage lying unattended in our colony because of which people are falling ill. We have not seen the councillor since the day she was elected," said Laxman Kumar, another resident of Indresh Nagar.
  
  
  However, councillor Jathwa defiantly said, "There are no such problems in my ward and it is one of the best in the city. The problem actually lies in the fact that people do not let Nagar Nigam put dustbins in front of their shops or houses."
  
  
  The residents worked for a couple of hours in the morning to clean their colony and maintained that this is the only way of keeping their surroundings clean.
  



  INDORE: Three persons, including an 8-year-old girl, were killed when a speeding bus hit their motorcycle in  on Saturday.
  
  
  The victims were moving on a motorcycle on  when the bus hit them near Tanodia village around 15km from Agar in the evening, police said.
  
  
  Prakash, 30, his daughter Raveena, 8, and nephew Bhola ,17, were killed on the spot, they said.
  
  
  The driver of the bus, belonging to , lost control of the vehicle after the accident and drove it off the road. The bus hit a small ditch and became stationary. Around five passengers sustained injuries.
  
  
  The injured were rushed to a hospital in Agar.
  
  
  Police have registered a case against the bus driver, who fled the spot after the accident.
  
  



  Aurangabad: The three-member  appointed to oversee the Rs 24.33-crore special government assistance for the development of roads in Aurangabad has prima facie found  in five works carried out by the  (AMC).
  
  
  The committee headed by divisional commissioner Umakant Dangat has also directed the municipal commissioner to initiate necessary administrative action and departmental inquiry against all the civic body officials concerned while fixing their responsibilities.
  
  
  The information was communicated to the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay  (HC) on Friday on a PIL filed by MIM corporator Vikas Yedke.
  
  
  The corporator approached the HC seeking directions to the civic body to fix responsibility on the engineers concerned and recovery of the losses caused to the civic body from them. Following the communication, the HC bench comprising justices S V Gangapurwala and K L Wadane asked the municipal commissioner to file an affidavit and placed the next date of hearing on the petition on October 24.
  
  
  Yedke filed the petition through lawyers B L Sagar Killarikar and Nitin Tribhuwan pointing out that conditions and norms set up by the state government while sanctioning Rs 24.33 crore for the reconstruction of roads and other allied public works were not followed. The petitioner said the works were to be carried out under the supervision of the three-member committee headed by the divisional commissioner, district collector and municipal commissioner.
  
  
  "However, by undertaking a faulty tender process the (then) city engineer assigned the work to a regular contractor. Till date, nothing has been done to check the quality of road works," the petition stated.
  
  
  Yedke sought directions to cancel the work order and inspection of the works by a competent authority.
  
  
  Accordingly, district collector Nidhi Pandey conducted an inquiry and submitted her report to the divisional commissioner citing that faulty tender process was adopted causing a loss of Rs 1.67 crore to the government/civic body. She also recommended that the liability of the loss be fixed on the officers concerned.
  
  
  Following further directions by the HC, the divisional commissioner convened a meeting of the committee members on September 12. He presided over the meeting that was attended by Pandey and municipal commissioner Om Prakash Bakoria.
  
  
  On Friday, the committee submitted minutes of the meeting before the HC, wherein it had directed the municipal commissioner to fix responsibility on all the officials/engineers concerned involved in the process and initiate an departmental inquiry against them.
  
  
  



  AGARTALA: With thousands thronging the pandals of Agartala on Thursday and Friday, police had a tough time controlling crowds. All pandals in the city were thrown open on Thursday itself and the consequent rush of revellers forced vehicles to come to a complete halt across major thoroughfares of the capital.
  
  
  "A large number of people came out at night and traffic personnel were not prepared to manage the situation," admitted SP (traffic) SR Das. He added that a special traffic management plan would be implemented for the four  days.
  
  
  At the centuries-old Durga Bari Temple in the city, state police, following tradition, welcomed the goddess on Friday. The Durga Bari puja, started by King Radha Kishor Manikya nearly 200 years ago, enjoys state patronage.
  
  
  Friday morning saw idols of Durga being installed at different puja pandals amid the chanting of mantras and the beating of dhaks.
  
  
  Besides  pujas, theme-based pandals depicting Hindu temples, the , landscapes of , various world-famous monuments and even the Andaman cellular jail were big draws.
  
  
  



  VISAKHAPATNAM: The  Federation of India (WTWFI) has announced that it will stage on November 10 a full-day dharna opposing the Major Port Authorities Bill 2016 as well as the new  and shore handling policy for major ports.
  
  
  Addressing the media in the city on Friday, WTWFI general secretary  said it is evident from the draft bill that the government has decided to have a port authority instead of a port trust and board of management instead of a board of trustees at each major port. "This provision no doubt would ultimately lead to  of major ports and have a severe negative impact on port workers as well as pensioners," he added.
  
  
  At the same time, he said, "The ministry of shipping has issued guidelines to all major ports for implementation of new stevedoring and shore handling policy immediately and existing stevedoring agents will have to switch over to the new scheme. The new policy also says that stevedores can deploy their own workers on board as well as on shore. This would pave the way for stevedores handling the cargo to and from the hook point from the ship to engage their own men. When that happens, employees and workers of the major ports will be thrown out of their employment and would be considered redundant and surplus."
  
  
  Also, he said the ministry of shipping is emphasising on developing port hospitals under PPP (public private partnership) model, but the port hospitals were established for providing a good health and highly modernised medical treatment to port and dock employees. "If it is proposed to develop under the PPP model, the private player would always concentrate on making profit rather than providing good medical care. Hence, such a proposal would be disastrous and it would harm the healthcare of the port employees."
  
  
  Meanwhile, the ninth national conference of the WTWFI will be held in Vizag on December 16 and 17, Rao said.
  
  



  MUMBAI: As many as 338 people have been killed in road accidents in Mumbai in the first eight months of this year.Fatalities dipped by 55 in January-August, 2016 compared to the corresponding period in 2015.
  
  
  However, the total accidents during the period surged to 17,694 -or around 73 accidents a day -from 15,078 in the same period last year, an analysis by Mumbai Traffic police shows.
  
  
  "The number of vehicles plying in Mumbai --28 lakh at present--is very high while the available road space is limited," said former director general of police PS Pasricha, who has authored a book on road safety and traffic management. "Pedestrian-vehicle conflict is very high. Footpaths are encroached, dug up or simply absent. Pedestrians are forced to walk on the road, unlike in Delhi where footpaths are wide. There are in sufficient foot overbridges and subways. Footpaths should have a minimum width of four feet," he added. Lane cutting and signal jumping are other main reasons. "Lane marking is absent on Mumbai streets. Thermo plastic paint should be used for marking lanes so that they are not erased even if there is heavy rainfall. Stop lines have to be marked at least 12 feet before pedestrian crossings. Wherever road excavation is on, proper barricading is a must," Pasricha said, adding that uneven and potholed roads often result in accidents.
  
  
  Since 2011, 1.37 lakh accidents have occurred in the city, killing 3,193 people.
  
  
  "We also need to pay more attention to soft infrastructure such as road discipline. Not halting at the red light, racing and overtaking from the left all lead to accidents," said Ashok Datar of Mumbai Environmental Social Network.
  
  
  In August, five youngsters were killed when their speeding car hit a tree on the Western Express Highway near the Mumbai airport. "Luxury vehicles are capable of attaining higher speeds in a short time so their drivers have to be particularly careful. Parents shouldn't risk their kids' lives by handing over vehicles when they don't have a driving licence. At times, young men attempt to replicate TV commercials showing daredevil stunts. This could lead to accidents," said AV Shenoy of Mumbai Transport .
  
  



  
  KOZHIKODE: Village  in  will soon get a . A total of 26 roads, which are in dilapidated condition are included in the list of roads selected to be repaired and renovated.
  
  
  The recent state budget had allocated fund for the development of three roads in the region. A total of Rs 10 crore each was allotted for the renovation of the  road and Kunduthode-Thottilpalam road and Rs 30 crore for Nadapuram-Muttungal road.
  
  
  "We will hold a meeting of MLAs of Kuttiady and Vadakara and grama panchayat officials to discuss land acquisition and other details for the development of Nadapuram- Muttungal road," said Nadapuram , E K Vijayan. "The plan is to widen the roads after getting the consent of people for land surrender instead of land acquisition," he said adding that land acquisition would delay the project.
  
  
  Detailed project report for the development of these three roads will be prepared soon by the PWD officials. A meeting of PWD engineers was convened by the MLA last week.
  
  
  "Apart from three major roads, 23 other roads will also be repaired soon by the PWD. Tender work for the repair of small stretches of the roads have already been completed and the work would start soon," said the MLA.
  
  
  According to an official with the public works department, a detailed estimate for the renovation of Kallachi-Vanimal palam road will also be prepared at the earliest to ensure the speedy completion of the road repair work. The plan is to develop the Kallachi-Vanimalpalam stretch modeled on Vanimalpalam- Bhoomivathukkal stretch. Roads in all ten village panchayats in the Nadapuram legislative assembly constituency are included the list of roads to be repaired.
  
  
  



  MANGALURU: Members of Nagarika Horata Samiti took out a padayatra from Surathkal to the main gate of MRPL, Kana, on Thursday to protest the deteriorating condition of the road and demanding that  and Mangaluru City Corporation take steps to repair the stretch at the earliest.
  
  
  The Samiti's protest comes at a time when the city corporation and MRPL are at loggerheads with each other as to who should maintain this road.
  
  
  Muneer Katipalla, DYFI state president, who launched a tirade against both elected representatives and MRPL, referring to a recent statement of mayor Harinath M that he and other corporators will stage a protest if MRPL does not repair the road, said people have elected the corporators to rule and not to stage protests.
  
  
  "The civic body and the district administration should use their powers to get the company to repair the road and provide relief to people,"Katipalla said.
  
  
  "If the mayor is not able to ensure that the road within its limits is not spoilt due to the activities of companies such as MRPL, HPCL and , it is better that he steps down," Muneer said adding Harinath could then come and join the locals who have been staging protests - one after the other to draw attention of authorities concerned to the pathetic state of roads. Harinath on Tuesday had given a 20-day deadline to MRPL to repair the road.
  
  
  If the road is not repaired in the next 15 days, the Samiti will scale up its agitation further by totally blocking all movement of vehicles on the Surathkal-Kana road, he warned.
  
  
  The protesters raised slogans in front of the main gate of BASF and HPCL that fall en route to Surathkal to the main gate of MRPL to register their anguish at the state of the road. , convener of the Samiti, Naveen Poojary, co-convener took charge of the padayatra on this occasion.
  
  
  Incidentally, H Kumar, MD, MRPL reacting to the mayor's statement had said MRPL is not in a position to fund repairs of Surathkal-Kana Road. "We have spent Rs 1.5 crore in 2010 to repair the road and maintained it for two years as a one-time measure. Recently, MRPL with MSEZ Ltd, reconstructed  with concrete at a cost of Rs 30 crore. Authorities could examine private investment in reconstructing the road and levy toll for bullet tankers and exempt local vehicles."
  
  
  



  KOCHI: Even as the Kochi Metro authorities ensure completion of the project between Aluva and , they maintain that works along the Sahodharan Ayyappan (SA) Road is also progressing fast. According to officials, Kochi Metro's contractor Soma Enterprise has shown signs of a recovery from the financial crisis, which had affected the progress of the project.
  
  
  "They have made great progress in placing of girders along the Manorama Junction and Vyttila stretch. It is also expected that the works of the viaduct along the stretch would be completed without much delay," said a Kochi Metro official. He said the construction of stations at Kadavanthra and Elamkulam were yet to begin.
  
  
  TOI had earlier reported that the financial crisis of Soma Enterprise had affected the Kochi Metro works. Kochi Metro officials said the contractor brought in "sufficient number of workers at the sites for going ahead with the work." They also said that the Navarathri or Pooja holidays wouldn't affect the progress of work.
  
  
  Meanwhile, it is pointed out that the works undertaken by Era-Ranken (JV) at Vyttila mobility hub is moving at a slow pace. "Though they have started works of the station, they could not make any significant progress," said the official. This contractor has to complete the work from Vyttila to . "In fact we want them to complete these works at least by December 2016. It is still unclear how the works would progress," added the official.
  
  
  However, the  (DMRC) is yet to award contracts after inviting fresh tenders for taking up the works between Maharaja's college and Ernakulam south and also between Kunnarapark and Pettah.
  
  
  Though the contract for executing the work between Maharaja's college and Ernakulam south was earlier given to Soma Enterprise, the metro authority terminated this contract. The tender awarded to Era-Ranken for undertaking the work from Vyttila to Pettah was also partially cancelled, and their activities were limited from Vyttila to Kunnarapark.
  
  
  The metro officials said the construction of flyover at Vyttila was another grey area. "We have adopted a wait and watch policy. Once all the plans are put in place, and a green signal is provided, we will proceed with the work on the stretch," added the official.
  
  
  



  BENGALURU: The transport department on Friday launched an improved version of its website. Now, citizens can pay taxes, fees and fines via the portal, without having to visit the nearest  (RTO). The Kannada interface can be changed to English, according to the user's convenience.
  
  
  Transport minister R Ramalinga Reddy said through the website, they hope to increase efficiency in operations and reduce the number of people queuing up at RTOs. "This will help the public save a lot of time," Reddy said. The development will benefit the owners of 1,60 lakh vehicles in the state.
  
  
  The website will be a repository of information. From the process required for obtaining a driver's/learner's licence (DL/LL) to vehicle statistics and pollution levels in the city, one can find it all here.
  
  
  "Instead of making rounds of the RTO to find out what various documents are required to complete a certain procedure, people can browse the site," said , additional commissioner for transport (administration). As of now, documents for DL and LL can be scanned and uploaded on to the database. Every user will be given an identification number, through which he/she can track the status of his/her complaint.
  
  
  The new system will allow users to pay fees and tax for new vehicles and quarterly tax for transport vehicles, as well as DL fees. The facility for virtual payment of permit fees, taxes and fines will be launched in few months.
  
  
  Box: High-density corridors
  
  
  Speaking about high vehicle density resulting in traffic congestion, , joint commissioner for transport, said high-level talks are being conducted with the chief secretary to open high- corridors across the city. "Police have identified 12 potential locations. We are in talks with the other stakeholders," he said. Last year saw vehicle numbers go up by nearly 20% (68,00,000) in Bengaluru.
  
  



  CHENNAI: In a severe indictment of  manning NSC Bose Road near Flower Bazaar, the Madras high court has said encroachments and hawking in the area were happening with police collusion and that the present team of personnel was 'unfit' to keep the area free of squatters. It wanted deployment of a new group to handle the stretch.
  
  
  "We are now unequivocally of the view that these encroachments are occurring with the blessings of police authorities. We are, thus, of the view that the persons manning the site are unfit to maintain the position as a site free from encroachments," said the first bench of the high court.
  
  
  It then directed the head of the Chennai city  police to nominate a new batch of personnel to handle the region. "We call upon the additional commissioner of police (traffic) to depute a fresh set of officers from today itself, which would be able to control the position, making them liable in case any such encroachments are found again. The zonal officer of the Corporation of Chennai will render full assistance to the police authorities, and will be a part of the team," the bench said.
  
  
  The bench was miffed at the blatant violation of its series of rulings, and it got the ground situation confirmed by deputing its registrar (administration) to visit the entire stretch and inspect the encroachments. After the inspection, the court official submitted a damning account of the situation and said encroachers shifted their wares from pavements when he visited the area, but re-occupied the public space moments later.
  
  
  The judges warned that they would send court officers without prior intimation to the road and take photographs so that they would get a true picture with regard to encroachments. "In this behalf, we authorise the registrar (administration) to go or depute somebody unannounced so that we get an authentic picture of the place."
  
  
  The bench then adjourned the hearing to November 14 for further hearing.
  
  
  The issue of encroachments of platforms, lack of parking space for business establishments and the eateries menace was brought to the court's notice in a PIL filed by Raghu of Vyasarpadi. It wanted a direction from the court to close down restaurants till they satisfy the mandatory provisions of Multi-storeyed and Public Buildings Rule 1974, the Madras City Police Act 1888 and the Tamil Nadu Fire Services Rule 1990 in respect of parking space, open space and fire safety measures. He complained that restaurants encroached on roads by allowing parking of vehicles on roads.
  
  



  GURGAON: After waiting in vain for over seven months to get the problem of the overflowing  and  resolved, angry residents of Sector 40 on Friday threatened to  and block traffic on the Sector 30-31 road to draw the attention of the MCG to the issue.
  
  
  "People have spent crores to buy plots in the sector. But unhygienic conditions and lack of even the basic infrastructure are reasons for concern. We will give an ultimatum to MCG commissioner on Saturday. If the issue of sanitation and bad roads is not addressed, we will block traffic on the road and protest against the corporation," said , general secretary of Sector 40 RWA.
  
  
  The residents have been filing complaints with the MCG commissioner, the Huda officials and at the in the CM window for over seven months now. "We want the officials to discuss the issue with us and make a concrete plan to resolve the problem accordingly. We require drainage under the footpaths as even a brief spell of rain washes out the concrete from the patched up road," said Dhanerwal.
  
  
  Tarun Pawaria, estate officer II, Huda, said, "We are assisting the corporation in the work."
  
  
  An MCG official, on the condition of anonymity, said, "We are working towards cleaning the roads and the green belts of sewage, which should be completed within a week. Regular fogging is conducted in the sector to avoid breeding of mosquitoes."Of the 1,247 plots in sector 40, nearly 98% are occupied.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: With news of the infamous Mira Road  scam spreading across continents, several IT and related firms in the business process outsourcing industry are facing the brunt of angry consumers abroad while others experienced attrition.
  
  
  Many BPOS in and around the city are now dealing with suspicious customers from the US, Singapore, UK and Canada, who are turning impatient and even abusive after they sense the caller is from India. Sushil Modi, founder and CEO of Pune-based recruiting firm , said, "This has affected the reputation of all other call centres in India and given the world a bad impression. We deal with consulting, staff augmentation and other work for multiple clients from Singapore, Malaysia and even within the country. Ever since news of the Mira Road call centre scam broke, our clients have become sceptical about the minutest details including licences or other documents, which was not the case earlier. It has also posed a threat to the number of new employees as not many are applying for call centre jobs now."
  
  
  "I work for a UK-based telecom service call centre in Mumbai, which has nothing to do with money or looting people. Despite this a few members of my team who were on dialler duty had phones slammed down on them with comments like 'stop calling me you cheats', 'are you not satisfied with your loot'. It is really disheartening," said  (24), a Lokhandwala resident.
  
  
  The arrests of employees in the Mira Road scandal and increasing hostility from clients abroad has also led many youths to quit their jobs at these firms. Ravi Patil, the team leader of an Andheri-based call centre added, "Many youngsters are now leaving the centre as they are afraid they will be behind bars. Despite explaining to them the difference between the work of the Mira Road centres and our work, five people have already resigned as they didn't want to take any risk. The BPO industry has been a go-to place for youth to get goofy salaries for easy work. This incident is affecting us."
  
  
  Aliasgar Bohari, an IT professional who has worked in various call centres in the past 12 to 13 years, said, "Over the past few years there has been a growing bias against Indian call centres. This incident is fairly recent, but once awareness about it spreads abroad, the backlash will increase."
  
  
  "The case is damaging the reputation of the country's IT sector. Hopefully, our prompt action in this matter will remove the anti-social elements, thus restoring faith in the IT sector here," Thane police commissioner Param Bir Singh told TOI.
  
  
  



  AGRA: In yet another incident of high handedness by those in power, a MLA of the ruling  in UP, , on Thursday allegedly threatened to "strip, tonsure the head and thrash" a Service Manager of the State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), K K Singh, for defying his orders of reinstating a suspended employee.
  
  
  According to KK Singh, the  called him up last night on his mobile phone at about 8.30 PM to inquire about his decision to suspend a hammer man, Suresh Chandra Sharma, earlier in the day. He said when he told the MLA that Sharma had been suspended for misbehaving with his foreman (Prem Pal Singh), Thakur Rakesh Singh demanded his reinstatement.
  
  
  Talking to TOI, KK Singh said, "when I told the MLA that reinstatement cannot be done without the departmental inquiry being completed, he lost his temper and started threatening me". KK Singh, who recorded the entire conversation, said the MLA said that he would strip him naked, tonsure his head and thrash him in public, if he does not comply with his orders.
  
  
  KK Singh said the caller identified himself as "Thakur Rakesh Singh MLA from  and even boasted that his mobile number was known to everyone. He said he had informed his seniors about the incident and was also going to lodge a police complaint against the MLA.
  
  
  Thakur Rakesh Singh had been earlier also in news for making threats and allegedly indulging in land grabbing.
  
  
  Efforts to contact MLA, Thakur Rakesh Singh proved futile. However, Regional Manager, Aligarh, Arif Saqlain, said that this is an "unfortunate" incident. "We have informed district administration in writing. This type of behaviour being down the morale of the employees", he said.
  
  
  Incidentally politicians in UP are well known for being arrogant and aggressive with officials. A case was even registered against SP Supremo, Mulayam Singh Yadav, in Oct last for threatening an IPS officer, Amitabh Thakur.
  
  



  Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) will take up  of all approach and entry roads of the city. New Municipal Commissioner M Thennarasan, in a meeting with all zonal chiefs instructed to identify, plan and execute the work on roads.
  
  
  The roads would be beautified with all required elements like , , , , footpath rapairs and daily upkeeps. All these works would be taken up in unison once the identification of these roads take place.
  
  
  Majority of these roads include the roads like Udhna - Navsari road, Kadodara- Surat, Surat- Kamrej, Surat -Olpad and Surat - Hajira road. At present some of the roads are not properly taken care of and this beautification is required for these entry roads so that a visitor gets a definite identity and good impression of the city.
  
  
  An official from SMC said, "This work is for creating an identity of the city. We would be undertaking the work immediately."
  
  



  INDORE: Three persons were killed and one critically injured when two  collided head-on in  district on Friday.
  
  
  The incident took place in the morning when one Dinesh Solanki and Gabbar were moving on a bike from Borkhaiya village. Their bike collided with that of Mangtaram and Bharat, Udainagar police station incharge  told TOI.
  
  
  The impact of the collision threw the riders away from the vehicles, he said adding Dinesh, Gabbar and Mangtaram died on the spot.
  
  
  Bharat was critically injured and rushed to a  in Bagli town.
  
  
  A case was registered by the police and attempts were on to ascertain how the two motorcycles collided on the road, Dongre said.
  
  



  PATNA:  celebrations would reach its peak on Saturday when curtains would be lifted on hundreds of pandals and a sea of people would venture out on the streets for pandal hopping and seeking blessing of Goddess Durga. Like previous years,  police has come up with certain traffic restrictions in the city from Mahasaptami (October 8) to Vijaya Dashmi (October 11).
  
  
  The traffic restrictions would be effective from 5pm to 5am. Entry of heavy vehicles in the city would remain completely prohibited during this period. A detailed traffic plan has been charted out for various routes.
  
  
  "We have issued a detailed traffic plan for vehicular movement on major roads in the city. The traffic plan has been issued for the convenience of residents and we appeal to the residents to adhere to it. We have also provided parking areas at many places to avoid any hassle to motorists," traffic SP P K Das told TOI.
  
  
  Under the Puja traffic plan, vehicular movement has been prohibited between Dak Bungalow crossing and Kotwali Chowk, Govind Mitra Road and Thakurbari Road. Similarly, no vehicle would be allowed on the stretch of Bailey Road underneath Jagdeopath-Sheikhpura Mor flyover. Vehicles, however, would be allowed to move on the flyover.
  
  
  Those coming from Patna zoo and heading towards Gola Road, Saguna Mor or Danapur can either use the flyover or take a detour from Sheikhpura Mor by turning towards airport road and reach Jagdeopath via veterinary college road and Phulwarisharif jail.
  
  
  Similarly, four-wheelers have been prohibited on Ashok Rajpath. Besides, only one-way vehicular movement from west to east has been allowed between Gandhi Chowk near NIT Mor and Gaighat.
  
  
  The traffic police has also suggested detours for most routes. Those intending to go to Bangali Akhada at Machuwa Toli from Anandpuri via high court may turn towards Beerchand Patel Marg from IT roundabout, reach Bhattacharya Road crossing via Station Road and turn towards Kadamkuan and further to Nala Road to reach Machuwa Toli.
  
  
  Traffic regulations apart, areas have been earmarked for parking of vehicles. For instance, vehicular parking has been allowed on the stretch of Fraser Road between LIC office and Bata showroom, Sinha Library Road and in front of Buddha Smriti Park among others. Those on Ashok Rajpath can also park their vehicles inside Patna Science College and Patna College.
  
  
  Traffic restrictions notwithstanding, many residents avoid vehicles during the pandal hopping. "Most streets in the city remain chock-a-block during Navratri and it is very difficult to drive even on those streets where there are no traffic restrictions. Hence, we avoid moving in car. At times, I take my children for pandal hopping on motorcycle and leave it much before the pandals to avoid getting stuck in crowd," said  Yadav, a resident of Digha.
  
  
  The traffic police has also issued its control room number, which is 9234600501. Besides, residents can also contact the control room of district administration on 0612-2219810 and police control room on 0612-2201975, 2201976 and 2201977 in case of any emergency.
  



  BELAGAVI: The foundation stone of the much delayed Belagavi central bus terminus will be laid in two months, assured transport minister .
  
  
  He was speaking at the inauguration of a high-tech bus terminus at Nippani and Chikkodi constructed at the cost of Rs. 5.5 crore and Rs 5.6 crore respectively. They facilities like seating arrangements, canteen facility, women's restroom, baby care centre, toilets, drinking water through the MLA grants.
  
  
  Reddy said that the construction of the Rs 30 crore central bus terminus in Belagavi has been delayed due to technical reasons. Although tenders had been called twice, there were no bidders. There were three bidders in the recent tender process, he informed. The construction of new bus stands at Kagawad and Yadwad at Rs 2 core would be realized in the current financial year, while the bus stand at Raibag will completed before the general elections. Reddy, who also flagged off five buses in both the bus stands, said the government is introducing 1,003 new buses across the district, including 107 in Chikkodi division.
  
  
  MLC  said the toilets constructed were inadequate. MP  said the chief minister should resolve the Mahadayi issue, while  demanded improvement of infrastructure in Nippani.
  
  
  In Chikkodi, Reddy said the government does not differentiate between north and south regions of the state. MLA Ganesh Hukkeri and transport corporation officials were present.
  
  
  



  THANE: Investigators have identified five suspects believed to be the masterminds of the  telephone scam which robbed American citizens of nearly Rs 500 crore by training young job aspirants to pose as employees of the US tax department. The five, known as Ali, Jimy, Akhil Singh, Tapesh and my, Akhil Singh, Tapesh and Shaggy, are said to be the brains behind the criminal operation and have been on the run since the Thane police cracked down on their "call centres" in Mira Road on Tuesday. A lookout notice has also been issued against two others, Tapan Gupta and , who are directors of Universal Outsourcing Services, which managed some of the call centre operations.
  
  
  Investigators say they secured details of the gang's contacts in the US who would send data like social security number of citizens on the WhatsApp messaging platform.
  
  
  All the 70 staffers, including two women, who were arrested in the late-night raid on Tuesday were sent to police custody till October 10 by a magistrate's court on Thursday .
  
  
  Police commissioner  said he had ordered surveillance to trace more such fraudulent call centres.
  
  
  "Such operators are hurting the reputation of the IT sector," he said. "We will ensure prompt action to help restore faith in our IT sector here."
  
  
  A crime branch official said some call centres in Thane and Navi Mumbai had abruptly discontinued operations after the Mira Road raid. A team is gathering data on them.
  
  
  Many youngsters are belie ved to have taken up jobs at the Mira Road centre on the promise of cash incentives of up to Rs 1lakh. Assistant commissioner of police  told the court that the staff earned between Rs 10,000 and Rs 40,000.
  
  
  Hatote told the court the staff were trained to put on an American accent, and provided a standard operating procedure, based on which they made calls. Every one was expected to make 100 calls a day , of which 10 to 15 would be answered, and of these, three are four were persuaded to make payment. The officer told the court that the magnitude of the scam was vast and investigators needed more time to get to the root of it.
  
  
  "We are yet to reach the mastermind and the directors and owners of the companies raided and the persons operating for them in the US," he said."The custody of the arrested is necessary to take the probe further and reach the other accused who are at large."
  
  



  PUNE: The state government has issued comprehensive guidelines for construction of roads and their proper maintenance and repairs in response to a public interest litigation filed in Bombay high court.
  
  While the public works department maintains the roads, some are in a bad shape because of inadequate grants. A committee set up by the government, including representatives of the , framed the rules which specify frequency of inspection of roads by junior engineers, assistant engineers and executive engineers on national and state highways, mainroads and municipal roads.
  
  
  All engineers working in public works departments, municipal corporations and municipal councils have been directed to implement the guidelines with immediate effect.
  
  
  The guidelines establish a real-time pothole tracking system launch in 2017, training of  engineers , and a consultant for use of modern machinery and equipment.
  
  
  Special inspection should be carried out by the engineers before and during the monsoon. During inspection, special focus should be on safety aspects such as removal of encroachments, filling of potholes, removal of roadside material that obstructs traffic flow, proper drainage, and proper road signages and markings. During the monsoon, engineers have been asked to keep a close watch on flood levels, repair potholes and remove blockages to drains. On ghat roads, focus should be on soil erosion, landslides and .  near culverts can be prevented by suitable channel training.Landslides can be minimized by providing the side slopes to a proper stable angle, and by providing suitable treatment to all potential disturbed slopes.
  
  
  Whenever repairs are undertaken for any stretch of road, adequate attention needs to be given for proper parking of machinery on the road side after the day`s work to avoid accidents, especially during night time.
  
  
  In cities, there is no proper drainage system in congested areas which damage roads. These guidelines suggest that the roads should be concreted only after approval of experts. Private companies or agencies lay utility lines along the roadsides.
  
  
  However, heaps of rubble lie on both sides of the trenches for days, creating problems for pedestrians as well as vehicle users.
  
  
  Road engineers with the municipal corporations should enforce discipline by strict supervision and through penal action. The municipal corporations should adopt use of modern techniques like trenchless digging. "Techniques for utility line installation, replacement, rehabilitation, inspection, location and leak detection are available. These technologies require minimum digging on the ground surface," the guidelines say .
  
  
  Bridges for 100 years
  
  
  The ministry of road transport and highways has issued directives to highway agencies in all the states to identify distressed bridges and prepare detailed estimates. For new bridges, the ministry said that the structures should be planned and designed so that they can be in service for 100 years
  
  



  PUNE: After 10 students narrowly escaped a fire tragedy on Thursday , the  (RTO) stressed that schools should take steps to provide transportation facilities for students.
  
  "We have repeatedly asked schools in multiple discussions to arrange their own transportation facilities for their students, to ferry them to and from the school. This is necessary as the safety of the students is paramount and there can be no compromise on that. It also makes it easier for the school and the guardians to be more vigilant," says Anil , Pune's deputy regional transport officer.
  
  
  Some of the students who were in the van study at a school which admits to not having its own transportation facility .
  
  
  "Our school does not have its own vehicles for transporting students. Either the guardians pick up the students, or hired autorickshaws and school  ferry the students," says a staffer from the .
  
  
  The van was transporting students from two schools, and was privately owned. According to the RTO, which is investigating the incident, the van did fulfil all safety features required in a school transport vehicle -colour codes, guard rails, safe seating, and a fire extinguisher.
  
  
  "I have spoken to the driver, and according to information we have received, the fire happened due to a leakage in the CNG kit, which was probably caused due to a short circuit. Because of the smell from the leakage, the driver was able to evacuate all the children in time after which, the car caught fire. The fire extinguisher was not enough for the flames, so the fire brigade had to be called in," Patil added.
  
  
  Schools have what are known as transport committees comprising school authorities, representatives of parent-teacher associations, and an RTO official. These committees carry out periodic reviews of the school's transportation facilities, apart from the RTO checks which happen at the time of issuance or renewal of the vehicles' permits.
  
  



  
  Admitting that the condition of city roads was pathetic, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar promised to make all the roads pothole-free by November 15. Even the roads selected under Phase-I of cement concretization works, will be repaired, he said. The civic chief also said that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had so far repaired 1,731 of the 2,637 potholes. Hardikar gave out these details during an  general body meeting on Thursday.
  
  
  In the action-taken report (ATR) that Hardikar tabled during the meeting, it was also revealed that NMC had issued showcase notices to eight contractors and civic officials for shoddy road works. An 11-member committee was appointed to probe the irregularities in tar road works. Hardikar, however, clarified that the ATR is just preliminary and the final report would be submitted in the next meeting.
  
  
  The probe committee, headed by chairman of public works and projects consultative committee Sunil Agrawal, had inspected roads that were in defect liability period of two years. Almost a week ago, the committee had sent letters to 17 corporators, who, during the July 20 general body meeting, had alleged irregularities in road asphalting jobs.
  
  
  However, the ATR did not mollify opposition parties and they stalled the meeting proceedings. The ruckus by the opposition parties forced mayor  to adjourn the House. Leader of opposition and city  president Vikas Thakre dubbed the report 'an eyewash.'
  
  
  Thakre claimed that the committee didn't inspect eight roads. "Instead of forming a committee of corporators, the ruling party should have appointed a technical committee comprising engineers from VNIT. The ruling party paid no heed to this demand made by opposition parties," Thakre said. He alleged that the formation of the committee was an effort to protect contractors indulging in shoddy works.
  
  
  
  Datke too expressed his displeasure over the lackadaisical attitude of the civic administration while preparing the action-taken report. He, however, pointed out that opposition parties, especially Congress, have gone in election mode so they didn't allow the administration to present the inspection report submitted by the committee. Datke said that the ruling party too is in no mood to spare any official involved in shoddy works to which Hardikar agreed.
  
  
  Of the 318 roads falling under defect liability period, the corporators' committee inspected around 50% of the roads. They found 18 roads in pathetic condition. Of these, private contractor OG Bajaj had laid eight roads and all of them are in bad condition, Datke said.
  
  
  "Bajaj has already been barred from conducting any civic works. He has been warned not to carry out any NMC works till his hotmix plant was upgraded," Hardikar said.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The house gave its nod to reduce water tariff of residential buildings sans occupancy certificates. Currently, NMC is charging water tariff at the rate of around Rs33.51 per unit for 0-20 units, followed by Rs46.91 per unit for 21-80 and Rs60.29 unit for above 80 units. Now, the price will be reduced in such buildings to Rs18 per unit.
  
  
  
  The property owners, who pay property tax for the entire financial year before October 31, will get 4% rebate. If it is paid before November 30, the rebate will be 2%. .
  
  
  
  NMC administration has framed uniform rules to ensure proper use of property belonging to its different departments by others.
  
  
  
  The standing committee has approved rates for use of footpaths and roads for erecting pandals during festivals or for functions by taking security deposit from the organizers.
  
  
  
  NMC will allow Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) to use 19 acres of the 44 acres of Ambazari garden. The remaining 25 acre will be developed by NMC. The house gave its nod to issue a no objection certificate (NOC) to MTDC.
  
  
  
  The civic agency proposes to construct 1,300 cattle stables in Bhandewadi for 5,000 animals on 19.39 hectares. It will be done on the lines of Gujarat government's Nandgram project.
  
  
  
  The two localities have been included within NMC limits and the civic agency has prepared a development plan for them. Suggestions and objections will be invited and a public hearing will be held for the same.
  
  
  
  The civic agency has given its nod to provide space for common regional centre for handicapped persons at . A memorandum of understanding (MoU) has been signed with National Handicapped Institute, Chennai for this purpose.
  
  
  
  UMTC, Hyderabad, had prepared a parking policy after consultation with transport department and city police. The house approved the policy and now NMC will invite suggestions and objections.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Leader of opposition Vikas Thakre, during the question hour, raised the issue of illegal usage of NMC's 1,057 sq metre of land in Telangkhedi area by a private contractor. The contractor has been using the NMC land to park  machines for almost two years without paying a single penny. Mayor Pravin Datke ordered municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar to probe the case.
  



  MUMBAI: The  on Wednesday, while presenting its budget for 2017-18, announced nine new dedicated  corridors in the city, including two in south Mumbai, besides integrated technology for better bus frequency and several other facilities to enhance passenger comfort. The transport undertaking has not not increased bus fares.
  
  
  The dedicated bus corridors, which are planned for implementation in this fiscal year, will come along D N Road from CST station, on Madame Cama Road in Nariman Point, Lala Lajpatrai Road near Haji Ali, Dr Annie Besant Road in , the Western Express Highway, the Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road and Adi Shankaracharya Road in Powai, Link Road from Oshiwara bus depot to  in Malad and the  Highway.
  
  
  "We have shared the design and plan for the D N Road and Madame Cama Road corridors with the BMC and the project is likely to be implemented soon. The dedicated  will help ease the rush of office-goers, who prefer to take BEST buses, especially double-deckers during peak hours," said BEST general manager Jagdish Patil. TOI had earlier written about the BEST planning to introduce dedicated lanes on these stretches.
  
  
  "The traffic police has already approved the plans and a go-ahead from the BMC is awaited," said a senior official.
  
  
  Transport expert Ashok Datar said though a dedicated bus corridor is a good idea, D N Road and Madame Cama Road were the "wrong places". "There are too many road junctions at short distances. As against Western and Eastern Express highways, a lane is not feasible on D N Road. It can only be effective on long-distance routes, which do not have much obstruction. D N Road is used by several taxis and cars during peak hours," he said.
  
  
  Another expert said that the road width may not be a problem for the leftmost kerb and buses will be able to ply, but this lane should be reserved only during peak hours.
  
  
  Talking about the use of technology, Patil said: "BEST will streamline operations at all the depots and stations for better frequency of buses. Bus schedules and maintenance operations will be web-based, all work at bus stations and depots will be computerized and performance of services will be monitored online to ensure there are no errors or delays. The new system will ensure speedy operations and better bus frequency." A total of Rs 25 crore has been alloeted for five years for this project.
  
  
  The BEST has also allotted Rs 100 crore for a fully automated depot with state-of-the-art parking and maintenance facilities. This depot will serve as a prototype. "Seat layouts in buses will also be redesigned to make leg room."
  
  
  



  Meerut:  vice-president 's road show in Meerut brought city traffic to a standstill. The road show, which began from , ended in Delhi. Congress flags could be seen dotting National Highway 58 all the way till Ghaziabad.
  
  
  The road show left Circuit House around 10:30 am and took two hours to exit the city limit. It passed through congested areas including Budhana Gate, Khair Nagar, Ghantaghar and Railway Road. The Congress vice-president stopped at three places within the city. Once the road show reached the BR Ambedkar statue near the district court, Gandhi got off the bus to garland the statue and pay his respects. He also got down from his bus a little while later when the road show reached Indira Chowk and paid his respects to his late grandmother and former Prime Minister  by laying flowers at the feet of her statue. The road show also stopped for about 20 minutes at Ghantaghar, where Gandhi, UPCC chief Raj Babbar and Congress's CM candidate Sheila Dixit addressed supporters.
  
  
  "The traffic situation was manageable and we made sure that residents were not inconvenienced. The road show passed through 18 major points in the city and we barricaded these places only when it was close by. Once the road show passed a particular area, we made sure we lifted the barricades as soon as we could. We managed the traffic effectively even though it passed through some congested areas. Some residents faced slight problems at Ghantaghar where the leaders had stopped to address the crowd but, overall, the situation was under control," SP (traffic) Kalpana Yadav said.
  



  BAREILLY:  being ferried by open  from the district hospital to the  site is an everyday grotesque sight on the city's roads. These cart pullers charge from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 from poor families per body for their services. Hospital authorities, however, claimed that they were required to provide a hearse only for natural deaths occurring at the hospital.
  
  
  Terming the ferrying of bodies as their new profession, the cycle cart pullers said their services are sought by the police, who are responsible for sending bodies in medico-legal cases to the place where post mortems are conducted.
  
  
  Once a victim in an ongoing case is declared dead during treatment, his body is kept at the hospital morgue and police is informed about it. Policemen then fill up the panchnama, and the body is wrapped in linen and sealed. From this point onwards it becomes the police's responsibility to send the body for post mortem.
  
  
  At this point, police rope in services of these cycle cart pullers to take the body 2km from the hospital to the post mortem site, passing through the heart of a city, including its main market establishments  Novelty, Punjabi Market, Ayub Khan. At any given time, these places are filled with thousands of people.
  
  
  Guddu, one of the cart pullers, said, "We are not paid for the kind of dirty work we do. At times we pick up mutilated and decomposed bodies which even family members refuse to touch. We recover our expenses from the policemen and family members of the deceased."
  
  
  Hospital authorities, however, stated that they are required to provide a hearse only for natural deaths occurring at the hospital. Speaking to TOI, chief medical superintendent (CMS) at the district hospital, Dr KS Gupta, said, "It is the responsibility of the investigating police officer and the office of the chief medical officer (CMO) which looks after the functioning of the post mortem house to arrange for a hearse van in case of a medico-legal death."
  
  
  Gupta said the hospital has just one hearse available for family members in case of natural death. "We arrange for the van when the family of the deceased asks for it. Funds have not been allotted for the driver or fuel but we still arrange for it on humanitarian grounds," the CMS added.
  



  The Bombay high court asked Maharashtra acting advocate general to assist it in the PIL on tackling the traffic congestion and indiscipline on . The court sought to know from the state if its July 2015 orders had been implemented and has scheduled the matter for further hearing on October 26, 2015.
  
  
  The police had in 2015 said that they will roll out an e-challan system for traffic offenders, initially on a pilot project basis, and then across the city within three months, and use the 6,000 CCTVs to be set up by the state for traffic management. The BMC had assured the  of improved signages and a new parking policy, BEST suggested online complaints for those who park near bus stops, while the transport department said it will digitize pre-2006 vehicle records in six months. The court had also asked the state to constitute a committee that will look into the implementation of measures for better management of the traffic system in Mumbai.
  
  
  At an earlier hearing, the HC observed that "the committee constituted under the orders of this court has taken no steps for the implementation of the order dated July 2, 2015".
  
  
  The HC had said that "state government was committed to provide CCTVs and other electronic gadgets including cameras suitable for enforcement of Traffic Rules and for more efficient traffic movement in the city of Mumbai. There is nothing placed on record to show that  has been made with the said statement. Moreover, the data base of all the vehicles (was to) be digitized within six months and duly shared with the Traffic Department by December 31, 2015. The said statement is an undertaking of the government. Even the said statement has not been complied with," the court had observed.
  
  



  GURGAON: For  from Golf Course road to Southern Peripheral Road (SPR)  (HUDA) has decided to extend DLF-Huda 16 lane expressway till sector 55-56. Under this project road from AIT Chowk to SPR junction will be up-graded and widened.
  
  
  Due to poor planning the one km long stretch of the road was left out the project for up-gradation and widening of DLF-Huda 16 lane expressway. The stretch would have been the biggest traffic bottleneck in the coming days with the development of station of Rapid metro in the locality.
  
  
  Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said the given stretch was left during planning of 16-lane expressway and it was planned only till AIT Chowk. "Now we want to fix it by extending the expressway till sector 55-56," said Yadav adding that extension of the road will ensure smooth flow of traffic and avoid jams.
  
  
  The development has come in the wake of visit of additional chief secretary of department of town and country planning (DTCP) SS Prasad to Golf Course Road on Sunday, following he had directed Huda to extend the 16-lane expressway up to SPR.
  
  
  "Following the direction Huda has started working on extension of this road. The portion of the road will be constructed along with the on-going work on 16-lane expressway," said a senior Huda official.
  
  
  Welcoming the development MCG corporator (ward 32) Mahesh Dayma said due to poor planning this small stretch of road was left out. "Upgrading of this stretch was very crucial for resolving problems of traffic jams and water logging," said Dayma, who was raising the issue up-gradation of this stretch with Huda official and even registered a complaint with CM window.
  
  
  The decision to upgrade the stretch was taken after Huda realised that up-gradation will not only help in easing out traffic congestion in this particular areas but entire Gurgaon. As with the completion of 16-lane expressway and SPR, people can go from one place to other without any traffic jams.
  
  
  Huda official said after the completion of 16-lane DLF Huda Golf Course road, and leaving the stretch from AIT Chowk to sector 55-56 would have created a traffic nightmare for the residents of the area. Residents of the area would have been caught between 16-lane DLF expressway and 8-lane Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). "Narrow lane between two major roads would have been a major traffic bottleneck," said the official adding that connecting both roads was important for smooth flow of traffic.
  
  
  Welcoming the Huda's move, resident of sector 55, Pravesh Mishra said, "Up-gradation of this stretch would ensure that it will not become another major traffic jam spot of Gurgaon and people of the locality will leave peacefully."
  
  
  Huda official said DLF-Huda expressway is a single wide road with 8 underpasses and a flyover, this road is expected to reduce the travel time from sector 56 to Sirhaul toll plaza from 30 minutes to 3 minutes. Along with this, a six-lane carriageway is also proposed to be constructed on the both sides of NH-8 to diver the traffic on this road.
  
  



  BAREILLY: Dead bodies being ferried by open  from the district hospital to the post mortem site is an everyday grotesque sight on the city's roads. These cart pullers charge from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 from poor families per body for their services. Hospital authorities, however, claimed that they were required to provide a hearse only for natural deaths occurring at the hospital.
  
  
  Terming the ferrying of bodies as their new profession, the cycle cart pullers said their services are sought by the police, who are responsible for sending bodies in medico-legal cases to the place where post mortems are conducted.
  
  
  Once a victim in an ongoing case is declared dead during treatment, his body is kept at the hospital morgue and police is informed about it. Policemen then fill up the panchnama, and the body is wrapped in linen and sealed. From this point onwards it becomes the police's responsibility to send the body for post mortem.
  
  
  At this point, police rope in services of these cycle cart pullers to take the body 2km from the hospital to the post mortem site, passing through the heart of a city, including its main market establishments  Novelty, Punjabi Market, . At any given time, these places are filled with thousands of people.
  
  
  Guddu, one of the cart pullers, said, "We are not paid for the kind of dirty work we do. At times we pick up mutilated and decomposed bodies which even family members refuse to touch. We recover our expenses from the policemen and family members of the deceased."
  
  
  Hospital authorities, however, stated that they are required to provide a hearse only for natural deaths occurring at the hospital. Speaking to TOI, chief medical superintendent (CMS) at the district hospital, Dr KS Gupta, said, "It is the responsibility of the investigating police officer and the office of the chief medical officer (CMO) which looks after the functioning of the post mortem house to arrange for a hearse van in case of a medico-legal death."
  
  
  Gupta said the hospital has just one hearse available for family members in case of natural death. "We arrange for the van when the family of the deceased asks for it. Funds have not been allotted for the driver or fuel but we still arrange for it on humanitarian grounds," the CMS added.
  
  



  GURGAON: In a first of its kind initiative, the  Officers (RSO) along with  is going to use the platform of Ramleelas for raising awareness through  (Street plays) among the community regarding Road Safety rules.
  
  
  Ramleela committees have been contacted and four Ramleela locations have been identified to spread awareness through their platform in the community regarding road safety issues in the city.
  
  The 4-day campaign started at 10 pm on Tuesday from .
  
  
  Under this initiative, Nukkad Natak (Street plays) will be performed on the road safety issues.  - Ek Awaaz along with RSOs will be performing the Nukkad Natak on different Road Safety issues. A 15 to 20 minutes slot would be selected during the Ramleela when the crowd is at peak so that the desired message could be communicated to maximum people.
  
  
  Flex banners on road safety would also be put up in the area among the people gathered at Ramleelas to put message across effectively.
  
  
  



  
  
  Thiruvananthapuram:
  
  TIMES NEWS NETWORK
  
  ?
  
  ?
  
  The salary crisis in the Kerala State Road Transportation Corporation (KSRTC) temporarily came to an end after the  (SBT) released Rs 70 crore for paying off KSRTC employees. Sources said that the salaries were delayed as the  had to clear the funds that have to be released for the merger with SBI.
  
  On Wednesday passengers relying on the Kerala State Road Transportation Corporation (KSRTC) in the southern districts were hit badly as employees at various depots in these districts, had gone on a flash strike to protest against the indefinite delay in disbursal of salary. The strike was carried out under the aegis of various trade unions.
  
  
  Services in the capital district, however, were not affected severely. In , the strike was complete as 84 services remainined un-operated.
  
  
  A KSRTC staff even threatened to commit suicide during a protest march at  in Kollam. Vinod , 33, of  in Kundara doused himself in petrol and threatened to self-immolate.
  
  
  The employees have also warned of launching an indefinite strike in case of further delay in paying salaries.
  
  



  PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The  unit of  on Tuesday staged a  against the delay in tarring the potholed road from Rakshak Society to Baner bridge at Rakshak Chowk in Pimple Nilakh.
  
  
  City Congress unit president Sachin Sathe alleged that the  (PCMC) was spending crores on constructing flyovers and grade separators on Sangvi-Kiwale BRTS corridor, but the 2km stretch on which thousands of vehicles ply was not being repaired. He alleged the civic administration and people's representatives were neglecting the road between Rakshak Society and Baner bridge.
  
  
  An important road linking Pimple Nilakh village to Baner and Balewadi in Pune city on the other side of Mula river, the civic body has not tarred it for the past five years.
  
  
  On Tuesday, hundreds of Congress workers demonstrated carrying placards with slogans like "Poor roads of rich municipal corporation". They also collected alms from the commuters.
  
  
  The population of Pimple Nilakh is around 25,000. They are dependent on this road to commute from Rakshak Chowkto Kiwale, Sangvi, Pimple Saudagar and other areas. It is also a shortcut to Baner, Balewadi and other areas in Pune city.
  
  
  Sathe said many accidents occurred on this road because of potholes. PCMC must tar the road as early as possible, he added.
  
  
  



  VARANASI: Five labourers including three women were killed and several others sustained injuries when a truck hit a  in  area in  district late on Tuesday night. The injured persons were admitted to the district hospital.
  
  
  About 16 labourers from Ballia and Bihar were going to Allahabad in a truck.
  
  
  The truck was crossing Nonahara area when it hit a bridge barrier near Hatwa turning at around 1am. Police rushed the injured to the district hospital. Nonahara SO  told TOI over the phone that three men and two women were killed while others sustained minor injuries.
  
  
  



  Jodhpur: In a fatal road accident, four members of a family died on the spot while the fifth member has been struggling for life in a hospital in Jodhpur.
  
  
  All of them belonged to  and were coming to Jodhpur in a car to see a relative.
  
  
  The deceased include one Lalita Banjara and her three daughters namely Santosh (6),  (4) and  (3). Police informed the family members of the victims and handed over the bodies to them after post-mortem.
  
  
  According to Ghewar Singh, SHO of Bilara, Rajuram Banjara from Ajmer was coming with his family on Tuesday. He had left from Ajmer in the evening and when he reached near village Bhavi, near Bilara on  highway, his Nano car collided with an  car at about 10.30 pm.
  
  
  Lalita and her three daughters died on the spot while Rajuram sustained serious injuries, who was later rushed to the MDM Hospital, where he his condition has been stated to be serious. The post-mortem report suggested that Lalita was pregnant.
  
  
  Singh said the Innova was carrying some religious devotees and were heading to Chandigarh. None of them sustained any injury.
  
  
  Police could identify the victims on the basis of the Aadhaar card and license obtained from the ill- fated car, which turned into a mass of mangled iron because of the intense collision. All of them were badly stuck in the car after accident.
  
  
  By the time, police took them out with the help of the near-by villagers, four had already died while Rajruam had been badly bleeding and had sustained fractures.
  
  



  Hubballi: As the price of  has come down drastically, growers across the state are expressing their anguish against , merchants and even the government for not coming to their rescue.
  
  
  Hundreds of  of Laxmeshwar taluk and surrounding places expressed their ire by throwing huge quantities of onion on the road at the new bus terminus in Laxmeshwar on Wednesday and blocked movement of vehicles for more than an hour on the  state highway.
  
  
  They withdrew their agitation when officials of the taluk administration assured them they'd take up the issue with the district administration.
  
  
  Farmers preparing to take their onion stock to the Hubballi APMC to sell it were disappointed when they heard about the drop in prices. Ravai Havald, a farmer, said, "I grew onions on 6 acres by borrowing money and spent Rs 30,000 on an acre. There was a shortage last year and many farmers got a good price for their produce. Hoping to make a profit this year too, we grew onion in large quantities but, to our shock, the price has fallen to Rs 50 per quintal, the lowest in the past few years."
  
  
  



  Jaipur: Day after a body was found buried below an under construction kuccha road in Gajner area on Wednesday, police have identified the deceased as Chelu Ram, a resident of . district.
  
  
  According to  station SHO , Ram was a daily wage laborer and was murdered a few days ago.
  
  
  "Ram was 35-year-old and was killed by few people three days ago. We have registered a case under section 302 of IPC and questioning the suspects," he added.
  
  
  Kumar said that police are rounding up several suspects in the case and the real culprit would be nailed down soon. The matter came to light when Bikaner police found a body buried below an under-construction kuccha road in Gajner area on Wednesday.
  
  
  A hand was jutting out on the road, while the rest of the body remained underground. Employees of a nearby petrol pump alongside a highway informed police that they had spotted a hand jutting out of a kuccha road.
  
  
  Scores of people gathered in the spot and started taking pictures which went viral on WhatsApp groups.
  
  
  "The construction work is underway on the highway in Gajner. We found the body buried below the under-construction stretch of the highway. It seems that some dogs smelled human flesh and tried to dig the body out,' said Inder Kumar.
  
  
  According to police, for past three days, labourers were constructing the road. The soil was sprayed and was levelled last night during which the body might have been buried, police suspect.
  
  
  
  



  HYDERABAD: White topping of city roads will be taken up soon as part of the government's comprehensive plan to give a facelift to infrastructure in Hyderabad.
  
  To start with, white topping will be done on a pilot basis at two places:  at , and KCP Junction near Somajiguda.Work is expected to start on Thursday .
  
  
  Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said the government would consider white topping all city roads after studying the quality of the pilot. Infrastructure Company Jaypee Group will carry out the work at the two places.
  
  
  "The idea is to study merits of white topping of roads and the quality of work a company can provide.Equipment will arrive on Thursday following which the work will start," said Rammohan.
  
  
  He said the government had decided to restrict giving contracts to reputed companies such as Jaypee Group and Larsen&Toubro."Substandard quality of work carried out by various contractors is a cause of concern. As a remedy the government has decided to consider only reputed companies, which have sense of responsibility and reputation," said the mayor.
  
  
  The decision was taken in a review meeting convened by municipal administration and urban development minister  on Wednesday . Responding to questions on the state of city roads and other infrastructure, KTR said a comprehensive plan was being prepared to improve civic infrastructure.
  
  
  While the cost of execution of the plan is estimated to be Rs 25,000 crore, a major portion of funding is being planned through borrowings from the open market. Ramohan said SBI Capital had come forward to lend Rs 20,000 crore.
  
  
  "As a report on the losses caused by the recent rains has been sent to the Centre, and we sought Rs 2,200 crore as compensation, we expect a substantial amount of money from the Union government," said Ramohan.He said the state government had decided to release Rs 400 crore immediately with which the work could be started.
  
  
  Apart from carrying out road work and repairing the drainage system, the government is also mulling major changes even in the structure of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). KTR said the government had decided to do away with the major roads division in the  and decisions regarding work would be taken at the circle level.
  
  
  To bring in effective decentralisation in planning and execution of works, the number of circles in GHMC will be increased from existing 24 to 30, the minister said.
  
  
  He said the government was planning to bring in a legislation to bring all municipalities under a single umbrella. "We are preparing a law that will enable transfer of employees from one civic body to another, something which is not possible under the existing system. This will curb corruption to a great extent," the minister said.
  
  
  Reviewing the exercise of clearing encroachments, KTR is also learnt to have asked GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy to submit a detailed report of illegal structures built on nalas along with their pictures.
  
  



  Nagpur: The general body meeting on Thursday is set to be stormy as civic chief will submit action taken report on the findings of the 11-member committee which probed allegations of irregularities in tar road works. The opposition parties in the  (NMC) have been alleging that the committee, which has found shoddy work only on 18 of 450 roads under defect liability period, was shielding the contractors.
  
  
  With code of conduct for municipal elections 2017 likely to come into effect from December last week or January first week, the general body meeting on Thursday will be third last of the current term. Two more meetings are likely to be held in November and December first week.
  
  
  Mayor  had constituted the panel following allegations of irregularities in road works were levelled by corporators from almost all political parties in the general body meeting on July 20. Chairman of projects consultative committee Sunil Agrawal was made chairman of the committee which submitted its report to municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar last month. The committee, which includes six corporators and five officials, inspected only 175 of total 450 roads under defect liability period.
  
  
  According to sources in the NMC, the committee has not divulged any information about its report and even the administration is maintaining secrecy about the action taken report to avoid ire of corporators in the general body meeting.
  
  
  Sources told TOI that the committee found shoddy work on only 18 roads. The civic administration, which had conducted inspection and tabled report in the general body before the committees inquiry, had confirmed there were problems with works executed on 18 roads, the sources said.
  
  
  The 11-member committee also pointed out minor flaws committed by private contractors. It also made various recommendations for improving quality of works, the sources said.
  
  
  Corporators from opposition groups like Congress and BSP have already raised questions about the committee and demanded inquiry by third party like VNIT etc. They had also alleged that the committee is protecting private contractors and the inquiry is an eye wash.
  
  
  Meanwhile, the administration has already started taking action against its engineers and contractors. Show cause notices have been issued to junior engineers, deputy engineers and executive engineers under whose jurisdiction the 18 roads fall. Notices have also been issued to contractors, sources said.
  
  
  The committee reportedly pointed out flaws at private contractors hot mix plants. The administration had shut down hot mix plant of one private contractor. The contractors have around 15 hot mix plants and all have been directed to submit certificates to obtain certificate from NMCs hot mix department and submit them within three months.
  
  
  Also, for the first time, administration made it mandatory for private contractors to get inspection done from NMC hot mix department once in every six months and get its certificate. Process has also started to construct new hot mix plant at Wathoda.
  
  
  The general body will also discuss various types of amendments proposed in Water Bylaws. One of the important amendment is giving rebate of 1% to regular water bills payers.
  
  
  
  
  
  Name of the roads: Civic chief will reveal names of roads on which inferior quality works done and submit action taken report in the general body meeting
  
  
  Earlier inspection: Public works department inspected all roads under defect liability period and found shoddy works on only 18 roads
  
  
  Action taken: Notices were issued to contractors who executed works on the 18 roads. They were asked to repair potholes and bad surface layer, which they did. But no action like forfeiting of bank guarantee or blacklisting corporators taken
  
  
  
  
  
  * Names of roads damaged within defect liability period of two years
  
  
  * Engineers do not maintain slopes on roads and asphalt shoulder portions
  
  
  * Waterlogging major cause for road damage
  
  
  * Construct cement concrete roads in areas affected by waterlogging
  
  
  * Inspect hot mix plants of private contractors once in six months
  



  
  
  Contractors have to work as per the conditions laid out under the tender. When the government  monitor a , we ensure that they work in . There is no question of a contractor doing substandard work. The poor quality of work can be attributed to no fear of penal action by the government agencies. The contractors must be instilled with a sense of responsibility and be aware that substandard work would not go unpunished.
  
  
  
  
  With limited manpower, the NMC engineers are doing the job to their best of abilities. No engineer likes to be blamed for deterioration of roads as it would mean that he has failed to ensure quality work. Currently, due to lack of manpower, the engineers are overburdened. One engineer is being asked to prepare at least 10 estimates a day. This is quite a burden and leads to poor quality work. The engineers are also facing hardships in monitoring whether design parameters are being followed or not.
  
  
  
  
  Roads are designed and constructed as per certain load. Nagpur is an emerging city, so mega projects like  and many other projects will change the face of the city. At the same time, the city roads will witness increase in overloaded vehicles even on internal roads. Premix concrete trucks, tippers and more such heavy vehicles will increase on city roads in the coming days. It is one of the prime reasons deterioration of city roads. Another major factor for poor roads is improper engineering. Currently, government agencies are focusing on black roads. Road engineering is not done properly so slopes, embankment etc get damaged early.
  
  
  
  
  One of the major reasons for bad condition of roads is lack of stormwater network. Hardly 40% roads in the city have stormwater network. As water is a big enemy of tar, roads in Nagpur fail to sustain even a small amount of rain. Design and implementation of roads should go hand-in-hand and construction of any new road should come up along with other necessary infrastructure like construction of stormwater networks. Another major factor is poor quality of works. Proper coating and binding of bitumen is not done properly. Construction discipline should be followed religiously. Track record of roads should be done on regular basis and each road should have exclusive identification numbers. Besides, dedicated department with manpower for road construction and maintenance should be there to ensure regular monitoring of roads.
  
  
  
  
  Ironically, this is going on at an alarming proportion. As soon as a road is laid, some agency digs it up. This is due to lack of coordination among various agencies. Actually, a coordination committee involving government agencies should be involved in developing citys infrastructure should be formed. This committee can coordinate so that roads are not being damage.
  
  
  
  
  Biggest advantage of cement concrete road is zero maintenance. But that can be assured if only proper care is done while roads are being concretized. If all conditions are followed properly, tar roads can also be good.
  
  
  
  



  Nagpur: The problem begins at the planning stage itself, said businessman  when the panellists started dissecting reasons for the emergence of potholes on roads during monsoon. Pointing towards huge allotment of funds by the  (NMC) for construction of roads, he said, Giving Rs300 crore for a project is not enough. The civic body needs to plan 50 years ahead by involving the public.
  
  
  Chartered accountant , former chairperson of ICAI, Nagpur, felt its a question of bringing accountability and fixing responsibilities. Is there any life expectancy when it comes to roads? she sought to know. Chanda Sinhababu, an HR professional, wondered why the road works usually start at the onset of monsoon. These roads then develop potholes just after a few showers. Also, there is no proper monitoring when the work is being carried out, she said. Kirti added that lack of coordination between NMC departments and also with government agencies like MSEDCL is responsible for continuous digging of the road.
  
  
  Educationist  said the tendering process is flawed as there is more emphasis on appointing the lowest bidder than constructing better roads. Shrishty Aware, an architecture student, felt that the quality can be maintained even at low cost if the contractor executes the work properly. Many times, there is problem with the road design and the materials used, she said.
  
  
  Agreeing with them, Pramod Puranik, traffic head, city bus service said, The contractor should give guarantee of at least five years for the road, he added.
  
  
  Representing the civic body, Sunil Agrawal, chairman of NMC project committee, said that the road works are carried out as per guidelines of Indian Road Congress. The defect liability period has been increased to two years from one year. We are mulling to increase it further.
  
  
  Highlighting the cement concrete road project, Agrawal said that the detailed surveys on all aspects were done before taking up the project. We tested the soil where these roads are to be laid and got the cement concrete developed accordingly. Now, we can also do real-time quality checks, he said.
  
  
  Agrawal felt that the NMC was being made a scapegoat when multiple agencies like  (NIT), state Public Works Department (PWD), MSRDC and NHAI, too, execute road works in the city. Puranik said the civic body should then display boards giving details about the projects being executed by it to make citizens aware.
  
  
  Emphasizing how bad roads are affecting peoples health, Dr Satyajit Jagtap, associate professor of department of orthopaedics at GMCH, said, There has been significant increase in spine and neck problems among citizens. On evidence basis, this can be attributed to bumpy rides due to bad roads. He added that the lowest quotation should be replaced with best quotation while awarding tenders for road works. To this, Agrawal replied that as per new rules, if the bid is below estimate, a performance guarantee will be sought from the contractor.
  
  
  Presenting data obtained from NMC website on status of roads under defect liability period, Yakub said the civic body has stated that the condition of road was good and even the inspection committee has said the same in its report. However, the reality is that many of these roads have potholes.
  
  
  Agrawal claimed that notices have been issued to contractors of roads that have potholes but are still under defect liability period. If such road is damaged, the contractor will have to repair it, said Agrawal.
  
  
  Agreeing with Agrawal, Vijay Naidu, president of NMC Contractors Welfare Association, said the inspection committee has reported about damage to roads under defect liability period.
  
  
  Lack of regular maintenance is a major reason for the poor condition of our roads, said Swaima Ahmad, a Masters student and soft skills trainer.
  
  
  On question of whether corruption is responsible for poor quality road works, Agrawal doesnt comment much except that he is not in a position to talk about integrity of others in the civic body.
  
  
  When Agrawal put onus on citizens for highlighting issue of bad roads, Ahmad pointed out that people fear that they may be targeted if they speak out and hence they tend to be neutral. The present system is not citizen-friendly. We have to hunt for the right department and authorities for taking up any initiative with the NMC, she said.
  
  
  Chanda and Yakub said there is no response or action from authorities even if complaints are made regarding bad roads or encroachments on them. Agrawal said there is too much workload on area engineers. They have to reply to RTI applications and also remain present for court hearings, he said.
  
  
  When Kirti and Kusumgar questioned how roads in areas like Civil Lines are well maintained, Naidu explained that there is good drainage system on these roads.
  
  
  Explaining how bad roads are also ruining families, Kusumgar added that potholes have caused many accidents and majority of the victims are two-wheeler riders. Usually, these are people who dont earn much and their death or physical disability due to such accidents hits their families badly, he said.
  
  
  When some panellists pointed out how encroachment on footpaths is aggravating the problem, leaving pedestrians with no option but to walk amid heavy traffic, Agrawal said, NMC doesnt have powers to take criminal action against the encroachers. At the best, we request for police protection but it is not available all the time, he said. As a solution, Naidu suggested people should not buy from illegal vendors and stop parking vehicles on roads.
  



  MUMBAI: Owing to massive  snarls in the western suburbs on Wednesday morning, several  reached schools late by at least 30-45 minutes. School buses were stuck in traffic for 45 minutes on the Western Express Highway (WEH) on a stretch that can otherwise be covered in 10 minutes. One of the suburban schools had to cancel an exam, claimed president of School Bus Owners' Association (SBOA) Anil Garg.
  
  
  According to motorists, heavy rain and  on WEH led to the snarl. Bumper-to-bumper traffic was reported on the south-bound arm of WEH, between Kandivli and Vile Parle, 9 am onwards.
  
  
  Garg said that several school bus owners complained about delays on Wednesday. "At some schools in the suburbs, the buses could not reach on time for pick-up. Schools in Juhu, Lokhandwala, Irla and Kandivli were the worst hit on Wednesday. The traffic police too were missing at several places. It was an utter chaos," said Garg.
  
  
  Though schools in Juhu claimed that major potholes on access roads to the institutes cause traffic  every day, students managed to reach on time on Wednesday. Principal Rohan Bhatt from Children's Academy in Malad said that students coming from Borivli to Malad were delayed by more than half an hour. He added that students travelling to Goregaon or Juhu from Borivli or Kandivali side would have been affected.
  
  
  Not just students, office-goers too were affected by the congestion. A motorist tweeted that he took an hour to travel from NESCO in Goregaon (E) to airport. SV Road was no better with Kandivli and Malad facing choc-a-bloc traffic. A motorist tweeted that he took two-and-half hours to drive from Kandivli to Kalina around noon. The roads from JVPD circle towards Juhu and Juhu Tara Road were also clogged.
  
  
  



  GURGAON: A businessman was robbed of his bags on Tuesday near a mall on .
  
  
  According to the police, the victim identified as Amit , a resident of The  in Sector 54, had visited the First India  on MG Road in his Toyota Innova car on Tuesday for some official work. The victim in his complaint alleged that he had left four bags containing documents, passport, laptop, mobile phone and Rs 10 lakh cash in his car that was parked by the roadside.
  
  
  When he returned to his car, he found the bags missing. Thereafter, Sardhana reached Sector 29 police station and lodged a complaint in this regard. Consequently, an FIR was registered against the unidentified accused under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC. A police team was formed to locate the bags and nab the accused.
  
  
  Meanwhile, Delhi Police recovered an abandoned bag at New Delhi railway station on Wednesday and on investigation it was found to be of Sardhana. The bag contained his laptop and mobile phone.
  
  
  "The bag containing Sardhana's laptop and mobile phone was recovered from New Delhi railway station. We are trying to locate the other bags which contain money and other valuables," said head constable , the investigation officer.
  
  
  



  MUMBAI:  will file civil cases against errant  involved in the Rs 352 crore  scam, which came to light after the first phase of inquiry, and the second phase, a report on which is yet to be officially submitted.
  
  
  Following the first phase of the inquiry, criminal cases had been filed against six contractors and two third-party auditors. But BMC decided that due to the huge loss which it suffered, civil cases too had to be filed to recover public money, which has gone down the drain due to substandard roads.
  
  
  Civic officials said the need for filing civil cases arose after the second phase of the road report was informally discussed with civic chief Ajoy Mehta. In a civil case, the affected party can ask for compensation in court for harm done by a person/firm who/which has failed to perform his/her duty as per a contract, or can even ask for the contractor to fulfil his duty. In a criminal case, prosecution is initiated against a person.
  
  
  Considering that the police investigation is in progress, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation felt the public money lost had to be recovered.
  
  
  Mehta said, "We are considering filing civil cases against the loss that the corporation suffered. The quality of construction of roads has not been good, which has lead to potholes. This time, we want good roads to start with and all contracts are in place for work to begin shortly. Barricading has been done, with permission from the police." Soon after the report on the first phase was presented to Mayor Snehal Ambekar in April 2016, BMC on April 27 approached the police and filed a case under sections 420 (cheating), 120 B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) and 197 (issuing or signing false certificate) of the Indian Penal Code, and suspended chief engineer (roads) Ashok Pawar and chief engineer (vigilance) U Murudkar for involvement in the scam. The two were later arrested.
  
  
  The civic body's preliminary report on 34 roads had revealed that irregularities varied from 38-100%, and on an average 53% work was executed. The report on the second phase states there are similar irregularities.
  
  
  The Rs 352.16 crore scam came to light when a civic inquiry committee headed by additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh took up inspection of 34 roads repaired in Mumbai recently, only to find shoddy work was done.
  
  
  The first phase samples taken were from 34 roads, including 14 in the island city, nine in the eastern suburbs and 11 in the west-ern suburbs.
  
  
  



  
  DEHRADUN: The  transport department has identified 103 accidental 'black spots' in the state on the basis of road accidents that occurred in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. Of the spots, the maximum 54 are in  district followed by 22 accident prone stretches in  district. "The black spots were located on the basis of combined information provided by police,  (PWD) and Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) in the state. The data regarding the spots has been submitted in the Supreme Court recently," CS Napalchyal, state transport commissioner, told TOI.
  
  
  According to the affidavit submitted with the Road Safety Committee of Supreme Court, the spots were identified in seven districts Dehradun (54), Haridwar (22), Udham Singh Nagar (18), Chamoli (1), Tehri (5), Almora (1) and Pithoragarh (2) while it was claimed that the remaining six districts did not have any dangerous accident-prone spots.
  
  
  Twenty two black spots were said to be on National Highway-58 which connects religious pilgrim centresHaridwar and Rishikeshwith Badrinath in Chamoli district. Besides, 21 accident vulnerable spots were identified on National Highway-72 which connects Paonta Sahib in  with Dehradun.
  
  
  When asked about the plan to fix the 'black spots', Napalchyal said, "Agencies like PWD and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) have been instructed to fix the black spots so that the cause of repeated accidents could be removed. We are also going to tell PWD to construct cemented parapets on the sides of hill roads for stopping the vehicles from falling into gorge in the event of an accident."
  
  
  Significantly, 641 people have been killed in road accidents in Uttarakhand from January 1 to August 31. Last year, 913 people lost their lives in road mishaps whereas 878 people died in road accidents in 2014.
  
  
  In a bid to check the problem, enforcement agencies in the state have issued 1798 challans for drunken driving, 12522 for over-speeding and rash driving and 20233 against motorists for driving without a helmet.
  



  Meerut: As  vice president Rahul Gandhi enters the final stage of his Kisan Yatra in the state, the party is hoping to ride on Meerut's historical legacy to end the string of road shows on a high.
  
  
  Speaking to TOI, district president Vinay Pradhan, "Congress's last session before Independence took place in Meerut also. Additionally, Meerut holds the distinction of spearheading the fight against the British in 1857. Meerut has held immense importance in the past and will continue to be relevant in times to come. After the roadshow on Thursday, Congress expects close to 1.5 lakh farmers to march to Delhi from Meerut." The leader added that around 40,000 were expected from Meerut only, while the others will be arriving from nearby towns.
  
  
  The Congress vice-president had, on September 7, launched his poll-campaign for the much important 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls with a 2,500 km-long 'Kisan Yatra' from agriculture-dominated Rudrapur belt of the state. The Congress VP covered 39 districts, 55  constituencies and 233 assembly constituencies. The 'Deoria to Dilli yatra', which started from Panchlari Kritpura village, was marked by a door-to-door campaign of collecting 'Kisan Mangpatras' (charters of farmers demands), one-to-one interaction with farmers through Khaat (cot) Sabhas.
  
  
  Besides Rahul Gandhi, state president  and Sheila Dikshit also held roadshows in various parts of UP. "The aim of the roadshows was to assess where we stand besides establishing close contact with the cadres. Now the next strategy will be planned focussed on campaigning," Dikshit, the CM candidate for Congress in the state, had said earlier.
  



  RAMPUR: Congress leader and two-term MLA from Bilaspur constituency, , has been carrying out 'kar seva' along with residents of villages to construct a 20-km long road which connects Bilaspur in  to Bareilly. The Arow-Sheshgarh road is riddled with potholes, causing considerable distress to the thousands of villagers who use it every day.
  
  
  "I raised the issue on several occasions, including at the state assembly. After that, the state government sanctioned over Rs 7 crore to construct the road but PWD has still not floated tenders," Kapoor told TOI.
  
  
  The road has been in bad shape for the past seven years and over 35,000 residents of Bilaspur tehsil have been affected by it. The road is the main link for the area with Bareilly. Congress party members and local residents have started collecting donations for building the road.
  
  
  "Farmers are providing us all the material, including tar, stones and soil, to help repair the road. They are also contributing in the form of labour, along with me," Kapoor said.
  
  
  Kapoor started working on the road on October 1, and so far the volunteers have completed 5.5 km. Kapoor works with the volunteers labourers from dawn till dusk, and then rests at nearby houses.
  
  
  "There are 35 gram panchayats which are the worst affected by the road," said Harjeet Singh, president of the gram pradhans' association.
  
  
  "Villagers are also unable to afford school buses as, due to the dilapidated road, they consume more fuel and charge more money," he added.
  
  
  In 2015, repairs work on a 32-km stretch of National Highway 87 linking Rampur in UP to Udham Singh Nagar district of Uttarakhand which was carried out by Kapoor in Bilaspur constituency after collecting donations from local residents. The work has been termed illegal by officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). An inquiry against the MLA has also been ordered by highway authorities.
  



  LUCKNOW: It was 1992 when , senior scientist at the  (CDRI) met with a road accident that left him paralysed waist down, leaving him with a wheelchair in place of his movable lower limbs to get him places. The bike he was riding that fateful day clashed with a tempo, taking his lower body in its stride and under the impact of the tempo's tyres.
  
  
  Verma (55) however, with a job in hand and the means to recover in life, still works as a scientist at the Institute and drives an automated car that gives him the ease of control in his hands.
  
  
  While Verma had the means to get on with life with his determination, there are hundreds of other accident victims who have neither any means nor resources nor the advantage of livelihood to their disposal.
  
  
  Keeping in mind the same, the  signed an MOU with Belgium Road Safety Institute and European Road Traffic Victims association, launching the Hindi version of their survey -My Life after the Crash- in Lucknow on Wednesday. The survey is being conducted successfully in t the  for several years. In India it will be in both online and offline modes.
  
  
  "The basic idea is to collect a data base of what needs for rehabilitation activities are needed by those who have suffered in road accidents. The answers to the pan India survey will then be presented to the union government for policy making," said Ashutosh Soti, treasurer of the Indian Alliance of Road Safety and founder of  that works for road safety (formed in the remembrance of his young son who died in a road accident). "India currently has no policy to help victims of road accident. This could be a step towards building one," he added.
  
  
  The survey that will soon be launching its English version, aims to gather around 2500 responses from the state alone from victims of road accidents by the end of November. The responses will not look at economic rehabilitation but also social and emotional rehabilitation of the victims.
  
  

New Delhi, Oct 5 (IANS) In a bid to educate 10 lakh students of 866 Delhi schools about traffic rules within three months, Delhi Police Commissioner Alok Kumar Verma will on Thursday inaugurate the 'Annual School Road Safety Awareness' drive of Delhi Traffic Police, police said on Wednesday.Police said Verma will inaugurate the traffic drive at Dogra Hall Auditorium in Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi.According to Special Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Sandeep Bhatnagar, the traffic police are going to start a three-month-long drive to be started from October 7 till January 15, next year about Road and Safety Awareness. "This would be our one of the biggest drive in which we have elected 860 Traffic police officers to visit total 866 Delhi schools during assembly session. These officers will educate students about the road and safety rules, traffic rules and other mandatory steps to be followed during driving on roads to avoid accidents," Bhatnagar told IANS. The Traffic officers will also engage students with different competitions such as road safety quiz, slogan writings, drawing and others."Students can play a vital role in changing the mindset of their parents and other family members in homes and make them force to follow traffic rules if they found violating traffic rules," Bhatnagar said. --IANSsp/sm/dg

  Bhopal: Two days after 10 people were killed and several others were injured when a bus fell into a river near , owner of the bus was arrested here on Tuesday.
  
  
  The bus is registered in the name of one  Jain, a resident of Islam Nagar locality of Bhopal, but during the course of investigations it was found that Mukesh has given the rights to run this bus through a power of attorney to his brother, , said police. Vikash was arrested, as despite the fact that the bus is not having a valid permit, he continued to operate it. A hunt has also been launched against his brother, Mukesh, who is the real owner of the bus, added police.
  
  
  



  NOIDA: Though the 24-km  provides a smooth ride to commuters, the adjoining sector roads on either side of this stretch are in a state of disrepair. According to residents of sectors 134, 135, 136 and 137, the sector roads have been in bad shape for the last three months.
  
  
  This stretch of road, which is about a kilometre and a half on both sides of the expressway and is connected by an underpass to the other side, is the cause of more than a bumpy drive, commuters say.
  
  
  Traffic snarls up, commuters are delayed, vehicles are damaged, and the so-called roads are safety hazards. Commuters have demanded that authorities provide them immediate reprieve from the rough ride.
  
  
  A TOI team took a look at the stretch and found that the road on the side, which houses residential societies including , , , , , , is operating only from one carriageway. Repairs began on this carriageway three months ago but they are yet to be completed.
  
  
  The second carriageway is open for two-way traffic but because it is damged and riddled with , it is a pain in the neck for road users.
  
  
  Commuters said these roads pose safety threats as well. "Some days ago, when I was driving back home around 1.30am, two men tried to stop me on this stretch. Because of the road's state of disrepair, I could not speed away and faced a harrowing time in trying to get away," said Monis Khan, a resident of Ajnara Daffodil in Sector 137.
  
  
  When the Noida Authority was contacted, they assured TOI that the stretch would be repaired and be functional by Diwali. "We have already started work on it," said Saumya Srivastava, deputy CEO (DCEO), adding, "I have directed the project engineers concerned to complete the repairs within the next 15 days."
  
  
  



  Gurgaon: The  Nagar planned by  15 years ago with an aim to streamline the movement of commercial vehicles in the city is all set to get a new lease of life. Huda is preparing a fresh plan to complete the project which is expected to help decongest the city roads.
  
  
  Once the project is complete, this will be the main transport office where trucks will arrive for loading and unloading instead of going to offices across the city. The Transport Nagar  which will also provide basic amenities like water and toilets so that transporters  was supposed to come up on 90 acres of land in Sector 33. The project was stuck due to litigations over land acquisition and encroachments. About 50 acres of land is under litigation, while large parts of the remaining 40 acres has been encroached over the years.
  
  
  The minister of road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, recently held a meeting to review the progress on development of Transport Nagar. The Huda officials, in the meeting, claimed that project was delayed due to stay on acquisition of 50 acres of land. Following this, Huda was directed to come up with a new plan for developing Transport Nagar on available land till the remaining land is not cleared of litigation. Huda will first carry out survey of the land free from encroachments. "These areas will be immediately allotted to transporters to prevent encroachment," said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav.
  
  
  



  MANGALURU:  Harinath M demanded that  take steps to repair the Surathkal-Kana Road in 20 days or face public protest.
  
  
  With more number of bullet tankers plying to and from MRPL and HPCL plants at Kuthethuru, the road is in a bad shape. Local citizens, various associations have already staged several protests in this regard, he said adding corporators including him are left with no option but to scale up the protest if there is no corrective action forthcoming.
  
  
  Addressing reporters, the mayor said an estimated Rs 3 crore is required to restore the 4.5-km stretch from Surathkal junction to Kana. "I have written letters to MRPL management, the CM, deputy commissioner in this regard," Harinath said, adding the under secretary to the CM has directed the DC to take suitable action in this regard. "I am hopeful that the DC will direct the MRPL authorities to take action," Harinath said.
  
  
  Noting that he is yet to get a reply from MRPL authorities to his letter, Harinath said motorists are risking their lives on the stretch. The road is in its present condition due to the movement of heavy vehicles, he said. It is beyond 's financial resources to maintain the road, the mayor said demanding the company to start the work within 20-days. "If they fail, I will lead the corporators in staging a protest," he said.
  
  
  Incidentally, this issue had figured when Dinesh K Saraff, chairman, MRPL chaired the AGM of the company last month. MRPL chief had assured that the company will look into the issue affirmatively. Various organisations including DYFI have staged protests demanding that the road be restored since the number of accidents on the road is on the rise and the dust that emanating from the road is making lives miserable.
  
  
  



  JAIPUR: In a freaky incident,  police found a body buried below an under-construction kuccha road in  area on Wednesday. A hand was jutting out on the road, while the rest of the body remained buried underground.
  
  
  The incident came to light when employees of a petrol pump alongside a highway informed police that they had spotted a hand jutting out of a kuccha road. Scores of people surrounded the spot and started clicking pictures, which went viral on whatsapp groups.
  
  
  "There is construction work underway on the highway in Gajner. We found the body buried below the under-construction stretch of the highway. It seems that some dogs smelled human flesh and tried to dig the body out," said , SHO, Gajner police station, Bikaner.
  
  
  According to police, for past three days, labourers were constructing the road. The soil was sprayed and was levelled last night during which the body must have been buried, police suspect.
  
  
  Police are investigating the cause of the death. They believe the deceased was a labourer, who got killed by somebody. "It is a major lapse on part of the people who were monitoring the construction work. How could they spray soil and level the road over a body," a senior police official said.
  
  
  The police team had to call in a  machine to dig the body out of the road. After conducting the post-mortem, police have kept the body at the mortuary of a local government hospital. "We have registered a case and launched an investigation . Prima facie, it is a murder. The body is about three days old, but only a medical report would reveal the reason of death," police said.
  
  
  The construction work on the stretch was halted after the news about the  spread. Police suspect that the murder took place at some other place and the body was dumped here.They are questioning the labourers to establish the identity of the deceased.
  
  



  CHENNAI: An undetected leak in a water pipeline of the  caused a small area of the  to sink on Tuesday. Upon being alerted by locals, officials of the  and  Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) plugged the leak in a six-hour operation.
  
  
  According to Metrowater officials, the 250mm pipeline carrying water to the Aavin factory in , developed a crack at around 10am on Tuesday.
  
  
  "The water was oozing out on the road when we were informed," said a Metrowater engineer.
  
  
  With water coming out of the pipeline, the soil beneath the road, around 150m from Sholinganallur junction, began to loosen and eventually resulted in a crater in the middle of the road. Metrowater had to dig a 10ft deep pit before plugging the leak. Traffic was affected on the busy stretch with the work blocking one lane on the OMR towards Siruseri.
  
  
  TNRDC officials said that the crack was spotted by locals at the right time. "We do not know why the pipeline started leaking. But these type of incidents happen from time to time," an official said.
  
  



  GURGAON: The  transport commissioner has written to the National  Authority of India (NHAI), civic agencies and the police department to rectify "" (accident-prone areas) on highways within 15 days and send an action taken report to the ministry and the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety.
  
  
  According to an audit report of the roads where the frequency of accidents is very high, there are five black spots on the Gurgaon-Jaipur stretch of the expressway. In Haryana, the maximum number of deaths due to road accidents occurs at this stretch of the expressway, according to the report.
  
  
  Fifty eight people have died and eight suffered serious injuries during accidents on these accident-prone spots. The audit report, which is also aimed at identifying reasons behind the cause of accidents, and thereby reducing the number of fatal accidents, found that mainly road accidents occur due to wrong-side driving and sheer negligence.
  
  
  Out of these 62 black spots in the state, five are in Gurgaon, where 58 people have died in road accidents over the past three years. At Rajiv Chowk, 10 people have died in road accidents owing to wrong-side driving, whereas 14 people died at Iffco Chowk. Similarly, 10 people died at Hero Honda Chowk, 13 at Kherki Daula and 11 at Sidhrawal near Bilaspur Chowk.
  
  
  According to a member of the road safety committee, 62 black spots have been identified on various highways of the state. During the past three years, 831 accidents occurred on these spots owing to flaws in traffic management and negligence of drivers.
  
  
  A senior official of the transport office said the ministry is seriously concerned about rising number of deaths in road accidents. "On several occasions, the highway authorities and police delay shifting of the injured persons to the hospital on account of various jurisdictional formalities, and thus they are risking the life of victims," he said.
  
  
  In an attempt to improve the rescue of accident victims, the state governments have been directed to make arrangements for shifting of the injured to the hospital as soon as possible. Even in case of fatal accidents, the first effort should be to take the injured to the hospital rather than declaring him dead on the spot.
  
  
  



  GURGAON: With the arrest of 25 people, including 15 women,  police claim to have busted a  being operated from a noted spa centre in MG Road area. A case under different sections of Immoral  Act has been registered at Sector 29 police station against the accused, including the owner of the spa. Five other staff members were also detained for questioning.
  
  
  According to the police, they received a tip-off that a prostitution racket was being operated from J-one (wine, dine and spa) located at MG Road. Following which a team of 50 cops, led by ACP (DLF)Mamta Kharab and ACP (Sadar) , raided the spa on Tuesday.
  
  
  "At the time of raid, 10 rooms of the spa were found to be occupied where flesh trade was being operated," ACP Mamta Kharab told TOI.
  
  
  The spa owner, nine clients and 15 women were immediately arrested. "We have lodged an FIR against all the accused under Immoral Trafficking Act and are questioning them," ACP Mamta added.
  
  
  



  NEW DELHI: Parts of south and Lutyens' Delhi almost came to a standstill on Tuesday evening due to back-to-back VIP movement followed by the rain and at least three vehicle breakdowns.
  
  
  A large number of people also stepped out for festive shopping, leading to  around market areas. There were diversions in central Delhi due to religious processions at Pahargunj and  during peak hours in the evening, leading to snarls at DBG Road, Karol Bagh and Connaught Place.
  
  
  Both Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong and Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe were in the city on Tuesday and the VIP movement from Hyderabad House to Sardar Patel Marg and the airport led to snarls. Major jams were reported from Sardar Patel Marg, Dhaula Kuan, NH-8, Delhi Cantonment, Mahipalpur-Badarpur Road, Ring Road, IIT flyover, South Extension and Ashram crossing. Commuters heading to IGI were stuck in the snarl at Sardar Patel Marg.
  
  
  An AAP protest outside Pakistan High Commission in Chanakyapuri forced cops to divert vehicles in the late afternoon. "We deployed additional forces around Lutyens' Delhi. But it took over three hours to normalise the situation," said an officer. The worst jams were reported from India Gate, Barakhamba Road, Tolstoy Marg, Parliament Street and the surrounding areas. Many commuters said it took them nearly an hour to drive from CP to ITO and Mathura Road between 5pm and 8pm.
  
  
  "I couldn't park at Karol Bagh around 2pm and decided to drive to a mall in south Delhi but could reach there only at 4pm," said Siddharth Arora, a telecom executive.
  
  
  In south Delhi, two DTC buses broke down near Ashram crossing and Nizamuddin flyover, triggering snarls on Mathura Road and Josip Tito Marg since the afternoon, respectively.
  
  
  



  Are huge crowds and unending rows of vehicles stuck in traffic all that you see on Mumbai's streets? Well, you have definitely missed out on its rather 'colourful' side. Not many know that the city's roads are also home to many exquisite works of art, created by some super-talented  artists. Once a subversive genre, street  has evolved in the city, and how! And, it's not just graffiti -- there's more to the genre like typography, , etc.
  
  An entire gang of enthusiastic artists, armed with their ideas and brushstrokes, are now determined to draw your attention to a multi-dimensional and vibrant cityscape. They are already being compared to famous international street artists like . Interestingly, not all of them are undergrounders -- many are professional graphic designers and filmmakers for whom, art is a passion.
  
  
  
  Life-size images of iconic stars  for example, Madhubala as Anarkali or  peeping through his sunglasses  will never fail to cheer up Bollywood buffs, and Mumbai is full of them.
  
  Ranjit Dahiya's #BollywoodArtProject has been the talk of the town for quite some time now. "I tried my luck in 2012, by timing my work with 100 years of cinema, and it clicked. I'm thankful that people have liked it." A resident of Bandra, Dahiya is flaunting his love for Bollywood on his locality's walls. From Dadasaheb Phalke to Guru Dutt, and from  to Nadira, they are all there. But he still feels he hasn't done enough. "I wish to paint Helen dancing," he says.
  
  
  
  The first name that comes to our mind in this category is Tyler. Most of his works reflect his 'state of mind' at that particular moment. Which is why, maybe, he says, "I regret making all of them. I make them one day and wonder why I did so the next. I frankly don't care if people like my work. However, they've always loved it."  laughingly adds that he sometimes forgets to sign under his work, but his fans do the needful.
  
  Earlier, he would work only during the night to avoid public glare, but not anymore. Also, since most of his work is issue-based, Tyler avoids wasting time by being creative. He says, "My first work had a little girl hiding a butcher's knife behind her back while feeding a chicken. It simply talks about hypocrisy."
  
  Another undergrounder is Zake, whose art involves complex designs with conceptual illustrations. There is also a mix of psychedelic elements and hip-hop (graffiti is a part of the hip-hop culture) in his style. Zake is inspired by the sights he sees during his travel.
  
  "The colours I use have a strange pattern, it's free flowing in terms of colours and static in terms of outlines. I don't reveal my identity since I believe my art should speak and luckily, that's how it's always been," he explains.
  
  
  
  This category caters to frequent flyers and the residents of high-rises that tower over the city's slums. Samir Parker says he wants to brighten the view for every person flying in or out of Mumbai. He has used tarpaulin to create a new, colourful roof for 600 homes at the Murugan chawl in Bandra-Khar as well as the Bandra camp near Reclamation.
  
  "The project was completed in over two months. The only challenge was the strong winds that made it tough to lay the tarpaulin sheets," he recalls. Parker is already working on his next, titled Autography. This time around, he's planning to fill autorickshaw roofs with unique hues and abstract art.
  
  
  
  Artist Drift (his real name is Sachin Shetty) loves being cool. One of his most loved works is a red and white 'really long' dragon, which looks distinctly oriental.
  
  
  
  Jheel Goradia, all of 21, holds her widely appreciated project #breakingthesilence very close to her heart. About her inspiration, she says, "A lot was going on in India during that time  especially crime against women. I wanted to create something that would express a woman's angst." Jheel, who is one of the few girls in the business, adds, "While I was at it, onlookers would stop by and share their views. I was shocked when a man with three daughters told me, 'Agar aap ladkiyan izzat se rahengi, toh hum mard bhi izzat se rahenge'. It's exactly this kind of mindset that I wish to change through my art," she sums up.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  



  MUMBAI: In a respite to more than 10 lakh  electricity consumers of BEST, the  on Tuesday asked  to stop collecting transport division loss revenue (TDLR) from power consumers through its monthly power bills.
  
  
  After giving the interim order, the court transferred the case to three-judge bench to decide whether the TDLR collected by BEST over the last four years should be returned to consumers. According to , an association of Indian hotels and restaurants, BEST has collected around Rs 900 crore per year as TDLR  about Rs 3,600 crore over the last four years  from its electricity consumers to make up for the losses in bus transport business.
  
  
  "According to the Supreme Court, BEST shall not recover transport loss from electricity consumers after one month," said Ahar president Adarsh Shetty. Ahar's Guruprasad Shetty and Kamalakar Shenoy have been fighting this battle against BEST in the Supreme Court for four years.
  
  
  Shetty and BEST Officials said they would receive a detailed copy of the order only on Wednesday. BEST general manager Jagdish Patil said he would be able to comment only after he receives the judgment copy.
  
  
  State industries minister Subhash Desai along with other members of the BEST committee had also met chief minister Devendra Fadnavis seeking his intervention to get TDLR surcharge scrapped. A BEST committee member, who was part of the delegation, said the TDLR accounted for nearly 15-16% of the power bills.
  
  
  According to Shetty, the Appellate authorities opposed the move to impose TDLR. "BEST apparently took advantage of the SC endorsement that it was a local body and can run transport and electricity businesses. It misinterpreted the SC's remarks to earn TDLR from consumers. Recently BEST was supposed to revise tariff and decide on ending TDLR but it is still recovering it," he said.
  
  
  



  This Navaratri, when Gurgaonwallahs go to watch , they will also get to see nukkad nataks by college students that have nothing to do with the Ramayan. Instead, they will be educated on the importance of road safety. The Road Safety Organisation, in collaboration with the Gurgaon Police, will be conducting these street plays during Ramlilas in Gurgaon on days when popular scenes are enacted and footfall is likely to be high.
  
  
  Raj Kumar, a Road Safety Officer (RSO), says, "This is the first time that we've planned something like this. We have tied up with the dramatics society at Amity University for this. College students will present these plays during short intervals on days when the footfall at Ramlilas is high. The Lakshman-Surpanakha scene, or when Lakshman gets injured, are very popular episodes, and people come in hordes on days when these scenes are enacted. The street plays will be 15-20 minutes each, and the troupe will perform them at around 10.15 pm at different venues on different days."
  
  
  "The Ramlila educates and entertains us, and with these street plays, we want to create more awareness among people," says Raj Kumar, a Road Safety Officer (RSO). Another RSO, Jagdish Baweja, adds, "In the past few months, we've seen that traffic rules are being implemented strictly in the city. People are not breaking traffic rules because they fear they'll be challaned by the police, but ideally, they should respect these laws rather than fear them. Our initiative is to spread awareness about respecting traffic rules."
  
  
  
  
  Ramlila
  
  
  
  Four Ramlila committees - Jacobpura, Bhim Nagar, Shiv Colony and Geeta Bhawan - have given permission for the play. Around 15-20 college students will be performing these plays, and close to 15 RSOs will be present at the venues to explain the importance of following traffic rules to the audience. Deepak Bajaj, the co-president of Amity's dramatics society, Ek Awaaz, says, "Most members of the society have performed at various venues, but they are very excited about performing in front of a huge crowd. Most of them have never experienced anything like this." The Ramlila committees are also happy to be part of the initiative. "Agar log jagruk honge toh achhi baat hai. We had no hesitation in agreeing to be a part of such an initiative. Although our Ramlila goes on without a break, without an interval, we will accommodate these street plays in between," says Ramesh Kalra, president, Shri Durga Ramlila Committee, Jacobpura.
  
  
  Y Puran Kumar, joint commissioner of police, who heads the traffic police wing, says, "It's good that Ramlila committees have accepted the proposals made by the RSOs. And since the gathering will be massive, the reach will also be wider."
  
  
  Similarly, making the most of the footfall, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Gurgaon, has set up a camp at Sheetla Mata Mandir, aiming to provide legal literacy. Abhishek Phutela, chief judicial magistrate, DLSA, says, "Lakhs of people visit the Sheetla Mata Mandir during Navaratra. Our officials will be there for ten days, starting October 1, for 12 hours a day, to help those in need of any kind of legal advice or assistance."
  
  



  
  
  
  
  
  
  The authorities were responding to allegations in a PIL filed by advocate  seeking "appropriate measures to prevent children of tender age from performing somersault/ gymnastic manoeuvres at traffic signals/intersections". (More) PPS ABA HMP ARC
  

It directed the State Government and the concerned authorities to remove encroachments and protect water bodies in the area. PKS ARC